It's just so difficult to determine
what's going to happen next in this
market.
>> If we continue to see this volatility,
there likely will be long-term buying
opportunities.
>> There is a big disconnect between the
physical and the financial markets.
>> The risk aversion has been increasing
dramatically.
>> At the end of the day, we have to ask
ourselves the questions whether or not
these positive trends can continue after
the war.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and
Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday clinging to cautious
optimism. The White House pushing a
15-point peace plan to end the war with
Iran as plans are being made to increase
the troop presence in the Middle East.
It's leaving investors continuing to
face down substantial two-way risk
heading into a weekend deadline. This
has been the issue so many people have
wanted to avoid missing out on the
upward rip when there was some sort of
capitulation or a sense of deescalation.
Question that increasing number of
investors are asking are we reaching the
point at which any kind of upside rally
based on deescalation is getting capped.
We're sort of reaching the limits of how
far that can go based on the fact that
we are reaching real cannibalization
from oil supplies and a real sense of
destabilization in the region.
>> It's starting to appear in the data. So
let's sit on the data. the
stagflationary hit to the PMIs. So
output a little bit lower, prices a
little bit higher. You're starting to
see it cascade through the economy, Asia
first and the Shell CEO saying Europe
next.
>> Yeah. And we saw that in some of the
PMIs coming out of Europe and you see
that with respect to what the ECB
president is saying, which is
essentially we will not hesitate to act.
And this time does feel a little bit
different in terms of the upside risk of
inflation. There still is that downside
risk though to growth and that's what an
increasing number of people are talking
about. Larry Frink saying if this is not
res resolved and you get oil to $120 to
$150 a barrel, brace yourself for a
global recession.
>> Equity futures doing okay. No sign of a
global recession here. Equity futures
this morning positive by close to 1% on
the S&P 500. Comfort again from a deeply
backated futures curve and the
disconnect. How many times have you
heard this line? The disconnect between
the physical market and what is
happening in the paper market and the
futures curve. So you could raise
questions about whether this is some
sort of manipulation, some sort of big
trader coming from a variety of
different places that have an incentive
to lower the appearance of of pain in
the paper market even as a physical
market really experiences some real
strain. On the other hand, there is a
question of how low prices can go if
this does continue, if there is demand
destruction. Honestly, this remains to
be a question. the speaker of the
Iranian parliament coming out and
saying, "Well, right now it it seems
like they might be winning the words,
the war of words, but it you can't print
molecules." Going back to what Jeff
Curry had to say.
>> I think maybe he watched the Jeff Curry
interview on this program just possibly
>> verbatim.
>> It's like word for word.
>> It was kind of shocking. I was thinking
the exact same thing. I was like, "Hey,
he's quoting Jeff Curry." Look at that.
>> Crude this morning down by close to 6%
on Brent crude. Brent south of triple
digits. 9850 on Brent crude. WTI at
about 87. Coming up on this program,
we'll catch up with Martin Horn at
Berings with markets at the mercy of the
headlines. Flexport CEO Ryan Pettison
with global shipping upended by the war
and Francis Donald of RBC as
inflationary pressures continue to
increase. We begin this hour with our
top story. The US sending Iran a
15-point plan to end the war. President
Trump saying negotiations have begun.
Bloomberg's Jamaa Beti joins us now from
Dubai. Jamanna, welcome to the program.
So, we've got a 15-point peace plan.
What's Iran's response to it so far?
>> Well, nothing yet, John. And and that's
the critical question. Uh what we
understand Bloomberg uh reporting
overnight is that the US have sent their
15point draft proposal to Iran delivered
via Pakistan. And much of the contents
of the proposal are similar to the
negotiating stance that the US had even
prior to the war. some of those key
elements on the nuclear deal, including
uh that Iran should uh give up their
their plans to develop a nuclear weapon.
They should dismantle some of their key
centrifuges, uh limit their missile
activity, stop funding proxies around
the region. So, none of that is new, but
there is one new element per the draft
proposal, which is Iran would have to
commit to the full reopening of the
strait without threats. And of course,
as we've understood over the last couple
of days, the strait is not closed. it is
effectively being controlled by Iran
still and there's a letter that was
being circulated by the international
maritime uh uh organization overnight
suggesting that Iran are allowing
vessels to pass through so long as they
deem them deem them not to be hostile.
So that is one part of the conversation
but I think what's key here is number
one we don't know who exactly the US is
negotiating with. There has been no
acknowledgement from Iran at least from
official voices that direct negotiations
are underway. there's been an offer to
mediate from Pakistan but still no
official commentary and the second point
here is even if they are speaking to
somebody let's say one of these
political figures like the speaker of
the parliament that Lisa just referenced
or Abbas Iraqi the foreign minister does
that person actually have the clout and
the influence to convince the hardliners
in the IRGC and the clerics to actually
sign on to some of the the the the
negotiating terms that the US are
putting forwards. No doubt they too will
be asking for very heavy concessions
because they know that they have this
leverage over the straight of hormones
now. So there's still a lot of daylight
between the two sides and no official
commentary coming through. I think
there's some skepticism that diplomacy
will actually lead to a positive outcome
in the next couple of days. Um and that
being said, look, it's still day 26 of
this war. It's still ongoing. The
operations are still ongoing. uh more
strikes overnight. Israel hitting some
key facilities around Iran. Iran
striking back, yes, with a lower volume
of projectiles than we had seen in the
first couple of weeks, but they're still
being very targeted about what they're
hitting. Another fuel depot site hit
near Kuwait. Um that disrupted some of
the airline activity, more drones being
intercepted in Saudi Arabia as well. So,
the war is still very much going on. uh
markets seem to be pricing in some form
of a diplomatic breakthrough, but I
think in this part of the world there's
some serious skepticism that this is
actually going to yield anything
tangible in the coming days.
>> Jamanna, appreciate the update. No doubt
we'll hear from you a little bit later
in the program. Jamaica Beti leading our
coverage out of Dubai once again this
morning. To Jamanna's point, the economy
is a mess right now in Iran and power is
very fragmented. So when we say we're
negotiating with Iran, we have to keep
on asking the question, who are you
negotiating with? And is everybody on
the right side?
>> Yeah. How much control does any given
person have over the regime? You can
also question who's the Wii. Is it the
US? Is it Israel? Is it Saudi Arabia? Is
it UAE? And is there a splintering of
some of the parties involved?
>> Here's the view on Wall Street so far
this morning. Martin Horn of Bearings
writing, "Geopolitical headlines
typically have only short-lived effect
on markets. We believe the inflationary
bubble will likely be contained." Martin
joins us now for more. Martin, welcome
to the program. Let's spend some time on
that belief. What underpins that belief?
>> Well, when you've got two parties that
are committing an act of mutual self
harm, generally speaking, those parties
find a way to come to together to find a
conclusion. I think that's exactly what
we're in. Um there's so much noise in
the world, it's very difficult to be
definitive around this. But you've seen
fundamentally over many many decades
that geopolitical events, even the most
tragic geopolitical events, the ones
that shaped our history, have generally
had a short-lived effect on financial
markets. And then the markets pretty
quickly revert to a position that is
okay. Well, what's happened to interest
rate policies? Where's inflation?
Where's global growth? And of the of
those three things, global growth is
demonstrabably at a low eb and this
isn't going to be helpful to global
growth. So I think markets will pretty
quickly revert to the fact that
commodity prices will adjust. But my
core assumption there is that there will
be a conclusion to this in a relatively
discreet period of time. You and I could
debate what discreet means.
>> Martin, we won't have that debate right
now because ultimately we'll be back and
forth all morning. I do want to talk
about your faith though in the streams
of earnings the US equities US companies
will generate in the next 12 months.
That's where the faith seems to be
states side and we see that in the
equity market almost every single day.
Earnings revisions aren't dramatically
lower. In fact, in many cases the
outlook for earnings seems to be
improving which seems crazy. Martin, can
you speak to that? What makes corporate
America and that stream of earnings so
resilient?
Well, at at its core, you've still got a
relatively good employment situation in
America. At its core, you've got one of
the economies that's uh investing the
most significant amount in AI and AI
generation. And let's face it, there's
no point to AI if it doesn't produce an
increased efficiency in the corporate
landscape. And there's been a resilience
now demonstrated by corporate earnings
over the last six years. is I mean you
think about it we've had COVID
doubledigit inflation the largest rate
rise you've seen in 30 years various
geopolitical events the fundamental
rewriting of trade lines across the
planet all of this should have produced
a much much dire situation and it hasn't
and it hasn't because actually when you
look at it uh I think corporates are
appropriately uh geared for this
marketplace uh the management teams of
corporates have generally been
relatively conservative because when
would you have been bowled up and they
all see the necessity for AI adoption as
a route to increased profitability,
increased efficiency in the future and
they're all running at it and some are
running at it pretty hard.
>> I understand the earning story and a lot
of people have pointed to that. Martin,
how predicated though is the stock price
performance aspect predicated on the
idea of central banks not hiking rates
in response to the inflationary stress?
Look, I think in it depends if you think
about short-term or long term. In the
short term, you know, I think we all
know that if if rates go into reverse,
in particular in the US, you're going to
get a market reaction and you can just
stand back and and watch that happen.
Again, in the longer term, uh do I think
that uh rates will be elevated well
above their current level for long? No.
And I think when you listen to some of
the narrative um from madam madame
Lagard uh earlier in the day, one of the
things she pointed out was um the rates
uh in the European market were far more
um embedded around the neutral position
which was very very different from 2022
was the point that she was making. I
think in the US arguably rates are still
slightly above the neutral position and
therefore you've got latitude I think to
bring rates down. That said, we live in
a more inflationary world. Forget about
the geopolitics of today. Um there's all
sorts of dynamics that have changed over
the last decade that mean I think we
should be having a debate around whether
2% or 3% is a more relevant stable
picture. Um but but I do believe that um
any rate rises will be followed by a
kind of a movement back downwards
because what in the economy tells you
that we're going to go up and up. I'm
not a buyer of stagflation as you can
tell. It strikes me uh Martin that
you're incredibly optimistic relative to
a lot of the people who I've been
speaking with over the past six, seven
days who seem much more concerned about
even a deescalation yielding a scenario
where suddenly Iran controls one of the
main waterways of the world and energy
prices and frankly commodity prices have
to remain elevated for a longer period
of time creating stress that people are
not recognizing but is being recognized
in the physical market. What gives you
confidence to be bullish at a time where
so many people are raising some real
structural concerns and saying the most
dangerous words in finance? This time is
different.
>> Yeah, I listen, I I've been in the
credit markets for nearly 35 years. That
makes me generically one of the most
miserable people you'll ever meet. So,
I'm not often referred to as bullish.
When you think about what I'm actually
saying is I think the world is in a
pretty low growth environment right now
and I don't see that fundamentally
changing. And I think to consider that
rate policy will go into reverse. Do I
think we're in structurally the same
place as the 1970s when we last saw uh
stagflation? No, I don't. I think the
world is different and I I think the
likelihood of stagflation is very very
limited. Um to be absolutely confident
in light of changing dynamics that
literally change by the hours and you
guys know that uh as much as anyone. No,
you can't be that. And you got to be
flexible and you got to be flexible in
your outlook and you got to be flexible
in your thought process. But history
tells us that there are some truths to
these situations, including these
situations generally get contained. It's
not easy to see it when you're at the
bottom of the pit and looking up when
you're in the heat of the moment, but
these situations generally do get
contained. We generally do revert to
basic supply and demand dynamics around
the world. We generally see rate policy
and commodity pricing reflect that and
that's the core core assumption here. I
don't think it's too radical. Um but I'm
sure that the news flow over the next uh
four or five days might make us think
again.
>> Martin I've made a note will never
accuse you of being bullish again. Okay
Martin, it's good to see you. Thank you
buddy. Martin Horn there of Baron's
breaking down. I think the consensus
view where a lot of people are right now
looking down this shock. As for Lagard,
I read that speech earlier on this
morning, said a lot without saying
anything at all. Almost perfectly
neutral, which might be somewhat hawkish
compared to where they were a few months
ago, but relative to very hawkish market
pricing, that was somewhat dovish.
That's not an ECB that's in a rush to do
anything anytime soon.
>> No, she wanted to say, I hear you. I see
your feelings. I see you pricing in a
heart rate hike. We're not doing
anything right now. We remain the op we
remain open to the option of doing
something later. Everyone calm down. And
that's essentially uh you know the the
message that she's been saying for a
while.
>> We're waiting for the data and once we
get it then we can act but it's too
early to really draw any conclusions
about where we are. So here's one
scenario and here's the other. That's
kind of where a lot of central banks are
at the moment. They can't say much more
than that
>> which is a reason why you've got the
likes of PIMCO saying right now this
market is completely out pricing wrongly
how much these central banks are going
to hike rates and this continues to be
the debate.
>> Futures this morning positive by 0.8%
crude lower bond yields down. Let's get
you an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more.
Hey Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. The US drafting a
15point plan to end the war in Iran.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
plan was delivered to Iran via Pakistan.
The details of the proposal are unclear,
but President Donald Trump has publicly
said any agreement would have to include
a prohibition on Iran ever obtaining a
nuclear weapon.
As the US waits for Iran's response to
that plan, it's also deploying about
2,000 soldiers to the Middle East. They
will join about 5,000 Marines expected
to arrive in the region this week. Sourc
is telling us here at Bloomberg the
troops could be tasked with a variety of
support roles or participate in a ground
attack which could include seizing Carg
Island.
And no end in sight for the partial
government shutdown that has led to long
delays at the nation's airports. Senate
Democrats rejecting the latest offer
from Republicans to fund most of the
Department of Homeland Security. Senate
Democratic leader Chuck Schumer saying
the GOP plan does not include any of the
ICE policy reforms they've insisted on.
That's Jupber brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara later this hour. Do you
want the Bremo travel review? What is it
out of 10? How bad is it? I have to be
really honest. First of all, I sold out
and I actually bought clear, which I
haven't done and I haven't wanted to do
because I feel like it's pay to play.
So, I felt really bad about myself for
having done that. But, nonetheless,
there was no line anywhere that I went.
I think it's just certain choke holds
that have significant lines, but I did
not experience
>> Which airport was this?
>> Uh either uh JFK at the time that I
went, which was a very unpopular time
evidently, as well as LAX. I just didn't
have a line.
>> Okay, there you go.
>> But that's I'm not I'm not diminishing
what other people experienced. That was
just my personal experience.
>> This is your lived experience. This is
my lived experience.
>> There is value in that and we appreciate
it. It's good to have you back.
>> Up next on the program, declaring
victory.
>> We've won this. This war has been won.
The leaders are all gone. Nobody knows
who to talk to,
>> but we're actually talking to the right
people and they want to make a deal so
badly.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with the
Flexport CEO Ryan Pettison from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
We are placing a lot of optimism in a
diplomatic process that Iran denied it's
engaging it in setting the tone for the
market this morning. and crude lower
down by more than 5%. Brent a break of
100 9863 that sets the tone for this
equities higher on the S&P 500 and up
across the board on the S&P up by8% and
bond yield to lower at the front end of
the curve and across the curve. Two's
down by three 386 following a very
sloppy 2-year auction in yesterday's
session. I think a 5year coming today,
sevenyear coming tomorrow.
>> Yeah, watch those auctions because that
two-year note auction it was $69 billion
of debt. Usually, these are super
sleepy. Nobody pays attention cuz
they're incredibly easy. The bid to
cover ratio, the lowest going back to
2024. Dealers forced to take up the most
going back to 2022, igniting a sell-off.
So, people care about the auctions
>> even with a big repricing and yields
higher as well, which is an interesting
moment for fixed income. Under Savannah
this morning, the focus on the
diplomatic effort declaring victory.
>> We've won this. This war has been won.
They have no navy left. They have no air
force left. They have no anti-aircraft
equipment left. No radar left. No
leaders left. The leaders are all gone.
Nobody knows who to talk to. But we're
actually talking to the right people and
they want to make a deal so badly.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
US delivering a 15-point plan to Iran
that would bring an end to the war.
Thran yet to respond to the proposal and
firing fresh attacks across the Gulf
overnight. For more, Amarie joins us
from Washington. Morning, Amory.
Good morning, Jonathan. That's right.
What we have is this administration
potentially looking for this diplomatic
off-ramp and the Associated Press saying
that via Pakistani officials, the
Iranians have received this plan, but
it's really unclear, and you hear that
from the president even yesterday
saying, "We're unclear of who is running
the country." So, it's unclear,
Jonathan, who exactly in Washington is
talking to who exactly in Thrron. And
amidst all of this, we still have the
straight of Hermoose effectively shut,
especially for Western allies as the
Iranians continue to control that key
waterway. And that is the focus of this
morning's conversation with Ryan
Patterson of Flexport, of course, the
Global Logistics Company. He is here in
Washington DC. He's a friend of the
show. And I want to begin with a trip
you made to the White House this week.
You have been in discussions with this
administration. what are they telling
you about what is going on in terms of
cargos and shipping throughout these key
waterways?
>> Yeah, thanks for having me on. Um, well,
so actually a lot of our conversations
are about terrorists, but I did get a
little bit of insight into what's
happening, especially with uh with jet
fuel, with the accessibility of fuel on
the West Coast and in Alaska. That's
been a major concern for the
administration to make sure that that
these areas get fuel. And as you know,
California shut down a lot of our
refineries in California where I live.
Uh and so there was there's a real risk
there because they don't have enough
connectivity to the rest of America's
energy infrastructure.
So they waved the Jones Act. So the
Jones Act is this act that says that for
domestic ocean freight, so if you want
to ship oil or refined products from
Texas, other parts of the United States
to California or especially to Alaska
because Anchorage is such an important
air freight airport. uh you can't do it
on a foreign ship. That's what the Jones
Act says. So the the the president waved
the Jones Act to allow for these regions
to get jet fuel from other parts of our
country on non US-made ships, which I
think was a vital uh there was a real
fear that Anchorage airport wouldn't
have air freight. And a lot of people
don't know this, but Anchorage is
probably the most important cargo
airport in the United States because uh
cargo planes flying from Asia to the
United States have to stop in Anchorage
to refuel. What are companies, your
clients telling you right now? Do they
feel like some of the pressure is easing
or things getting even more challenging?
>> No, it's simply getting more and more
challenging. I mean, the price of the
price of air freight especially has gone
through the roof. If you're shipping
from Asia to the United States, we're
seeing prices have doubled uh since the
beginning of the month, since the start
of the conflict. Um even that's carried
over to the Asia to US trade lanes where
air freight prices have gone up a lot.
um around well initially it was around a
60% it kind of stabilized a little bit
but more like across all of the lanes
Asia to US is up about 25%. So, um,
obviously you're going to hear about
that complaints about that, but actually
the bigger problem is is just available
capacity. 20% of all the capacity and
air cargo. It's actually 18% of the air
cargo capacity in the world is operated
by Middle Eastern airlines.
>> So, it's been cut off.
>> Yeah. Think Emirates, think Qatar
Airways, Etihad. That probably includes
Saudia, the Saudi airline. Um, so
there's that's a lot of capacity. It's
effectively removed from the market.
They've been operating limited flights.
they've been trying to restore, but
every time they come back, there's like
another attack at the airport and they
drop it again. So, that that's actually
made it very difficult to get air
freight moving at all. In some cases,
there's just not enough capacity.
>> I want to briefly end on the point you
made about most of your conversation
with the White House is about tariffs.
About what exactly?
>> Yeah. Well, um, we've been seeing a lot
of tariff fraud. Uh it it's the United
States allows foreign companies to
import goods into the US without having
any nexus any like a think of an entity
or an LLC or anything like that. You can
just foreign companies can just import
into the United States. I mean so we've
observed at Flexport a huge percentage
of trade has flipped to where the
Chinese companies are importing it with
Chinese freight forwarders and
underdeclaring the commercial invoice
value effectively cheating on their
terrorists. So, we've been calling
attention to this and partnering with
them on how they how they might uh
enforce this. Um, and and so that that
was like a big agenda point for me is
sharing what we're seeing in the data,
how this is happening, but also trying
to learn what's going to happen with
tariff refunds. Um, you know, as you
know, the Supreme Court overturned the
AIPA tariffs as $166 billion that
companies are owed and CBP has has said
publicly that only 6% of companies have
registered their bank account with the
government to receive these refunds. So,
that's something that Flexport has been
all over trying to help companies get
their refunds back when when that
process starts.
>> Brian, thank you so much. Very
insightful, especially off the heels of
your conversations with the White House.
Of course, Jonathan, that was Ryan
Peterson of Flexport. he and his company
really dealing with trifecta of issues.
First of course it was co 19 then of
course it was tariffs and under the
biden administration the issues in the
red sea and now it's the straight of her
moose
>> and Marie appreciate the update the
shock of the last month or so reducing
capacity the tariff volatility of the
last 12 months increasing friction and
overall when you increase friction you
increase costs is making it more
expensive to do business.
>> Yeah. And how much can some of these
companies pass along those costs? That
is going to be the key question during
earning season. How much do margins take
a hit? How much do people's pocketbooks
take a hit?
>> It's the key question for central banks
as well. Up next on the program, Dan
Pickering of Pickering Energy Partners
with crude falling back into double
digits. Plus, Yhira has your morning
movers. Travel stocks rallying in the
pre-market. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Once again, as we've seen a few times
already, many times over the last few
weeks, crude setting the tone for
financial markets more broadly. Brain
crude down by 5%. WTI down by 5%. Also,
the faith in the diplomatic process, the
hope, how misplaces that hope heading
into the weekend. Substantial two-way
risk still just lingering over this
market. That's the price of crude this
morning. Once you've seen that, you know
what this looks like. Equities higher
across the board on the S&P 500 by 3/4
of 1%. The Nasdaq up by almost 1
percentage point. And in the bond
market, 2-year, 10year, 30-year yields
down across the yield curve. We're down
by two basis points on twos. 10's down
by three. Look out for the auctions. The
2-year was really soft yesterday.
Mentioned that just moments ago. 5year
supply coming later. 7-year supply
coming tomorrow. I wanted to finish on
this though. Gold snapping a 9-day
losing streak in yesterday's session,
looking to build on yesterday's gains.
This morning, high by close to 2%. Gold,
a really interesting story right now
because central bank buying has been a
major tailwind for this particular
precious metal. Buying gold, buying
gold, buying gold. And what do you do if
you've been buying gold and you start to
get in a bit of trouble? You sell it.
And that's what some countries are
starting to think about.
>> Yeah. Whether it's the actual countries
that are selling gold, whether it's the
hedge funds that are selling gold to
meet certain uh positions that have
gotten stopped out had there been a 10th
straight day of losses yesterday. It
would have been an unprecedented run of
declines for the precious metal. Again,
this raises the question, how much is
this positioning unwinds? How much we
reaching the end of that? And how much
can this precious metal be the haven
asset that is the hedge if this is how
it responds in a time of turmoil?
Turkey. We put out the story this week
that Turkey was considering selling its
gold holdings, part of them anyway, to
defend the Turkish lera. There is
speculation about what Gulf nations will
do with their Gulf reserves if they
haven't got the all revenue coming in.
In the same way, it's question after
question about who's going to monetize
what and when.
>> Exactly. And at a time when everyone is
looking to monetize at the same time, I
think there is this extra element too
that people keep talking about which is
that increasing number of hedge funds
and just average investors have used
gold as the hedge instead of US
treasuries and suddenly there is a
reassertion. There is the ultimate pain
trade of buy US assets once again coming
back upending some of the trades that
people put on again. Are we getting to a
cleaner position now where suddenly
people can start assessing exactly what
the real value is or does this really
undermine gold's proposition as what it
is which is a store of value?
>> Gold this morning by 1.8% as we count
you down to the opening bow 3 hours
away. Let's get you some single names
some morning movers. Yahara has more.
Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. We are seeing the travel stocks
rising this morning and no it's not
because Lisa finally got clear. All
jokes aside, we are seeing the airlines
and cruise lines uh rising as investors
latch on to signs that the Iran
situation may not be getting worse, at
least for now. Uh now that we know that
the US has sent Iran this 15point plan
to try and resolve this conflict,
helping to ease uh uh oil prices this
morning as you just said and that goes a
long way for the airline stocks which
had uh felt the brunt of this sell-off.
Uh moving on to the chip stocks, we uh
turn to ARM shares. They are rising 13%
in the pre-market as the company moves
to sell its own chips, moving beyond its
traditional licensing model. And it's a
big pivot for this company as it takes
aim at the fast growing data center uh
market tied to AI. But that same demand
is pushing supply to its limits. And for
that reason, we are seeing uh other chip
stocks like AMD and Intel rising this
morning on reports uh from Nick A
warning customers about another round of
price hikes for their CPUs. It's the
latest sign that the ship chip shortage
is moving beyond memory and into
processors and that is adding pressure
uh for PC and server makers, soft uh
smartphone makers as they compete with
these data centers to try and get their
chips. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yahara in about 10 minutes
time. On our radar this morning, the US
sending Iran a 15-point peace plan to
bring an end to the war. The details
reportedly including sanctions relief, a
roll back of Iran's nuclear program, and
shipping access through the straight of
Hormuz. Elsewhere, the White House
ordering the 82nd Airborne Division to
deploy about 2,000 soldiers to the
Middle East. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, the troops could take part in
ground operations on K Island or occupy
land along Iran's coast. And finally,
travel disruptions continuing at US
airports across the nation as Senate
Democrats reject an offer from President
Trump to fund most of the DHS. United
Airlines CEO Scott Kirby urging Congress
to get the deal done.
>> There are places where we've had long
lines. It's really the last week that
it's started to increase a little bit.
Um I am hopeful that we're near the
finish line. I've been talking to folks
uh in the Senate on both sides of the
aisle. It does feel to me like we're
close.
>> The hits keep coming for this industry.
Kirpy also warning airline ticket prices
could increase up to 20% brammo if jet
fuel prices remain elevated. So on the
first point, I will just point out that
in a February Gallup poll, the approval
rating for Congress was 16%. That was
down from more than 40% before the
financial crisis in 2008. Just gives you
a sense of how people feel about being
held hostage in terms of the TSA agents
when it comes to travel in order for
Congress to get anything done. I'll
leave that there. When it comes to fuel
prices, there's a feeling right now uh
that you have to game out some sort of
bogey point if you're an airline, which
is a third about a third of all costs of
airlines are tied to oil prices. How do
you do that at a time where things are
moving so quickly? Scott Kirby, the CEO,
is saying that prices will average above
$100 a barrel through 2027, reach up to
$175
at the peak, and that if they're going
to offset the 11 billion of extra costs,
just where oil prices are now, ticket
prices are going to have to go up 20%
and that will cannibalize from demand.
He expects demand to fall off in
response.
>> I've only got one question. Lie flat
across three seats and I can buy them
all at once. Have you seen this? Can you
describe what United is unveiling and
how much I'm going to have to pay?
Because the question I had and many
people had the same question. Do those
three seats in coach cost the same
amount as one seat in business or do I
get to pay less to have the same amount
of space?
>> You know, great questions. I'm sure will
all be answered in time. What is notable
to me, you look at the new planes, they
smell like new planes. You walk in, it's
very cool. The vast majority of the
plane is premium seating. only a small
subset in the back is economy is coach
and that to me tells you the path of
travel for airlines that premium is
where they are going to make their money
and that is where they're going to put
the dollars in terms of the plans for
the planes. So even if you're not in
premium you can pretend to play premium
if you just buy out all the seats and
lie across.
>> Did you get to see the seats?
>> I did.
>> Okay. And what's it look like? Did you
lie across them? Is it comfortable?
>> I did not lie across them.
>> You didn't try them out dress. We got
any video of this? If we get some video
of this, we'll play it later.
>> That' be amazing. But you know it look
they look beautiful and they're
investing in these planes to try to
cater to a higherend kind of consumer.
Interesting that they're doing this at a
time of incredible volatility and
interesting that this comes after this
has been where the primary uh income has
come from. This is the K-shaped economy
really demonstrating itself through the
airline industry who can afford paying
those seats who wants to pay for those
seats and how are these airlines going
to keep going despite some of the
volatility that we've been talking.
>> If you haven't seen it I'll try and
describe it. Essentially, United is
doing what we always wanted airlines to
do, which is get rid of the armrest. You
can pull them up and you can turn the
three seats into a lie flat bed
essentially, right? And you can share
that with your family or just lie there
alone.
>> Share that with your family.
>> Really? You could like Well, actually, I
saw some people doing that yesterday. I
did I actually did witness this. They'll
lie flat, you know. It's a good
>> We need to have a serious conversation
apparently. So, let's do that right now.
Let's talk about crude. dipping below
triple digits as the US sends Iran a
peace plan reportedly demanding shipping
access through the straight form. Tyran
currently charging select vessels as
much as $2 million to pass. Dan
Pickering of Pickering Energy Partners
writing, "Time is not the threat of the
US as the oil markets tighten every day
with so much oil bottlenecked behind the
straight." Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, welcome to the program. We've heard
this a million times now over the past
few weeks. There is a massive disconnect
between the physical market and paper
markets. Can you briefly talk about that
and maybe try and explain why that
disconnect exists at the moment?
>> Sure, John. When you look at the demand
for oil, particularly in the Middle
East, oil and products, um the spot
markets very tight. Access is an issue.
When you've got an access issue, prices
are high. You look to the financial
markets, Brent and TI further removed uh
both in terms of paper barrels versus
physical barrels and further removed in
terms of of distance and that
accessibility issue. So if you're in the
US, record level of production here, 14
million barrels a day, biggest in the
world. Um less issues with access,
prices are are lower. go to the go to
Europe better um paper barrels there
trading at at a premium closer to the
conflict but not in the conflict um
prices are are higher than the US lower
than in Asia so it's proximity and it's
physical versus paper barrels
>> and whoever's dependent on those
physical barrels coming out of that
region Dan you can see what's happening
shortages are beginning to emerge can
you help us track how the dominoes are
falling at the moment
>> whether shortages are appearing in what
product and where and where you think
it's going to show up next.
>> You bet. If you look to Middle East, uh
you look to Asia, um what you're seeing
is jet fuel fuel, for instance, trading
over $200 a barrel. You look at at
gasoline, um and oil trading in the $150
a barrel range. What you're starting to
see in Asia, where accessibility is the
issue, uh you're starting to see
conservation measures, um work from home
initiatives, etc. So you're you're
seeing price start to impact demand in
Asia because they're feeling the brunt
of it immediately. That's the risk over
time is that that availability issue
spreads beyond just Asia, moves across
the globe, and that's one of the reasons
you're seeing this release from the
strategic petroleum reserves across the
world.
>> Dan, do you see a possibility for oil
prices to go back to 65 or $75 a barrel
if there is some deescalation right now?
Yeah, if you if you open the straits, if
barrels move through the straits,
regardless of why, uh prices are going
lower. We're trading WTI below 90 today,
you'll go below well below that if if
the straits open up. You will then move.
So 6575 feels to me the landing point
when things are back to normal. Hard to
get to normal. What's normal look like
on a go forward basis? Is Iran in
charge? if they are, there's going to be
a risk premium that you've talked about
on your program already this morning.
So, um, so I think 6575 would be a
logical landing point. If you snapped
your fingers and everything, uh, went
back to the way it was, that feels like
a challenging outcome.
>> Some people are arguing, whether it's
Morgan Stanley or Carlile, that already
there is a risk premium that needs to be
baked into oil prices, even if there is
some sort of deescalation, because that
new normal is so hard to put your finger
on. Why do you disagree with a lot of
these analysts saying that oil prices
are never going back to that and that
frankly are stuck at these levels or
above for the foreseeable future?
>> Yeah. Um well, right now the market's
pricing in something like 10 or 15
million barrels a day offline. If that
number comes down, I think price comes
down. It doesn't go back to where it
was. And the longer we go, and this I
think is the key issue, uh we're we're
burning up, you know, 70 million barrels
of inventory every week. This stretches
into, you know, April and May, you're
going to have a a market that's, you
know, dramatically tightening and you're
putting consistently, you know, every
week means a higher floor. So right now
if we think things go to 6575
and this uh conflict lasts for 2 or 3
months the 6575 goes up 10 $15 $20 a
barrel. So that's I think where the more
bullish folks are are coming is they're
expecting this to last for a while and
if it does you know prices will be
higher kind of painfully higher.
>> Dan we talked a lot over here in New
York about how insulated America is.
They're not going to suffer from
shortages because we produce close to 14
million barrels of crude per day. It's
not quite true. It depends what state
you're talking about. The average across
the country right now for gasoline is
about four. For California, it's higher.
And as you know, California very
dependent on importing refined product
from abroad from elsewhere. Dan, how are
you tracking how things are building?
What kind of tension could we see in the
coming weeks for California?
>> Yeah, California is uh in a pickle. um
the their policies have have resulted in
refineries shutting down, lack of
production in the local market, um
reliance on imports, and so you know,
the the worse it gets in California,
it's a big it's a bet big headline
focus. And they are most at risk, they
look more like Asia than anywhere in the
US. And so, you know, the easiest
measure for all of us uh at home is just
watching what gasoline prices do. And if
US prices nationally move from four to
five, which they would if this con
conflict continues, then I think you see
California take even another step
higher. So, uh, they've got a structural
problem. I don't think the US is going
to let it, you know, let it go crazy.
But, you know, as as US rest of the US
ratchets up, so will California.
>> Hey, Dan, it's good to see you. Thanks
for making time for us. Dan Pickering
there of Pickering Energy Partners. It
is true that America's net position with
energy is decent, fantastic. It's better
than most compared to say Asia. But to
Dan's point there, California looks a
lot more like Asia. State by state, the
story is radically different.
>> Yeah. And California incredibly
vulnerable both from their own policies
that have restricted some domestic or
local production, I should say, as well
as just the imports from Asia. I wonder
what this does politically with Gavin
Newsome potentially be being the
Democratic nominee.
>> Well, I think he's trying to blame
what's happening at the White House for
what's taking place right now. Well, we
get to talk about it for a couple more
years. It'll
>> like the situation in California. How
many times has Chevron talked about this
and Chevron again overnight warning
about what could happen in that state
and how vulnerable they are to this
situation. Just to go back over that
line again, California is more like Asia
when it comes to energy even though
you've got this massive resource sitting
in this country. They're not taking
advantage of it. Yeah, there's been a
real effort to uh move away from fossil
fuels and that has been translated into
much higher prices at the pump just
regardless of any kind of base increase
but also an increase in exports from
elsewhere rather than domestic
production.
>> Crude this morning negative by close to
5% 87 on WTI Brent crude at about 99
with an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. The straits of Hormuz beginning
to reopen. in Iran saying foreign ships
can cross the streets as long as they
aren't supporting acts of aggression
against the country. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg Tyrron is charging
transit fees on some commercial vessels
passing through the street. And as you
all were just discussing, Chevron is
warning that California is heading
toward an energy crisis because of the
Iran war and says state officials should
declare it an emergency. The company
says it may quit refining oil in
California within a decade unless
officials roll back taxes and
regulations.
Now, the latest on the investigation
into the deadly crash at New York's
LaGuardia airports. A system designed to
help air traffic controllers monitor
vehicles and planes on the ground failed
to alert personnel before a jet collided
with a fire truck on the runway. The
truck wasn't equipped with a transponder
that would have helped pinpoint its
exact location. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for that
update. Appreciate it. Up next on the
program, we're standing the shock.
>> We'll really start to see that that
energy price shock feeding through in
the March data. But really what matters
is the persistence of that shock. We've
taken up our expectations for uh
headline inflation by around 50 basis
points. Up next, we'll catch up with the
brilliant Francis Donald of RBC from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks are positive this morning. High
by 0.8% on the S&P 500. Setting the tone
for that this move in crude, Brent and
WTI. Brent lower. WTI lower down by more
than 4%. A break of 100. Back into
double digits on Brent crude. 9884 and
locking some gains in the bond market
and lower yields down by about three
basis points on twos 387 on 10s down
three also to 433 under Savannah this
morning withstanding the shock
we'll really start to see that that
energy price shock feeding through in
the March data we've taken up our
expectations for uh headline inflation
by around 50 basis points so far off the
back of the energy price shock I think
the key thing to watch in terms of
thinking about the feed through into
inflation is not where the oil price is
today. But really what matters is the
persistence of that shock.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Economic impacts of the Iran war
mounting with average gasoline prices in
the US nearing $4 per gallon. Global
central banks weighing potential rate
hikes with inflation not expected to
fall to target levels. Joining us now to
discuss, Francis Donald of RBC. Francis,
can we just begin with your outlook,
your base case before this war and
whether it's changed at all looking out
12 months?
Our base case before this war was
something that looked a lot like
stagflation like growth that was
slightly below comfort level and
inflation that was slightly above
comfort level importantly driven by
services inflation. Our outlook now is
maybe stagflation medium. So uh more
weighing on growth and more upside to
inflation. Now these are not massive
figures. We're looking at three plusish
inflation. still high ones on growth,
but it's not as comfortable as we would
have liked. It certainly negates the
tailwind coming from government
spending, and inflation is probably
going to lap itself again. I suspect
next March we'll be celebrating the
six-year anniversary of inflation above
that 2% target. So, same directions and
the wrong directions for this economy.
>> Let's go with your medium-grade
stackflation. Francis, if we get medium
grade stackflation, how does this
Federal Reserve respond? How much space
do they have?
>> They they don't have space. Monetary
policy is not the right tool for what
ails the US economy. And let's be clear,
the US economy is not close to a
recession. The unemployment rate is
going to stay very low for supply side
reasons, lack of workers in the American
economy rather than lack of demand going
forward. And there's nothing the Federal
Reserve can do. They can hike or cut all
they want. It's not going to open the
straight of Hormuz. We are once again in
a supply shock that limits the abilities
of central banks to deal with what needs
help in the US economy or any economy
across the world. This is why we are
increasingly leaning on fiscal policy.
This is why government spending gets
bigger and bigger. This is why the long
end starts to rise. It's the same type
of shock of a different flavor,
unfortunately.
>> So, we were talking about the fiscal
lever and a lot of people are looking at
that and wondering, are we really going
to foot the bill for it? Yesterday we
saw a pretty messy two-year bond
auction. Today we've got fiveyear.
Tomorrow we have seven-year notes being
sold by the US Treasury. How much are
you getting concerned about buying
government debt at these levels given
the concern about how much that fiscal
lever will be pulled on?
>> Well, what I'm concerned about is more
long run with US fiscal position which
is we have rising pressures on social
security coming through. Interest costs
are also rising. Defense costs are high.
And again, this is not a uniquely US
situation. We see this in developed
markets across the entire world. So
leaving or or having to rely on the
fiscal lever necessitates big government
and big government becoming the new norm
going forward. And again, it's not just
a US issue. It's a new global macro
factor. We have to switch our minds away
from monetary policy being the cyclical
driver towards governments and fiscal
being the cyclical driver. The problem
is that uh fiscal levers or governments
tend to be more politically motivated.
So your cycle becomes more attached to
the political cycle as opposed to the
economic one.
>> How much does your outlook change should
this conflict go on in the Middle East
for a longer period of time? In other
words, you're talking about stagflation
light going to stagflation medium. The
rest of the world is talking about
runaway growth or recession and there's
nothing in between depending on whether
there's deescalation or not. How do you
look at an ongoing prolonged uh closure
of the street of Ramuz and conflict in
Iran as pressuring stagflation media?
>> It's very uneven and this is one of the
challenges with a shock of this
magnitude. Of course, we have net
exporters of energy. So the United
States, Canada, where GDP doesn't get
impacted on the top line to the same
amount and then you have net importers.
Your net exporters, like the United
States or Canada, for example, they're
dealing with predominantly a price
shock. That's one type of shock. But
your net importers, well, they're
dealing with a price shock and a supply
shock. That's a whole different ballgame
than just an inflationary element that's
being on top of what the US and Canada
are currently facing. Underneath the
surface, we also know it's an incredibly
uneven thought uh uneven shock for
consumers. So on average, Americans, for
example, spend less than 2% of all of
what they spend on gasoline, but it's
more near 4% for the bottom half of
Americans. And so what concerns me more
is we've talked a lot about things like
K shapes. We've talked a lot about the
US separating from the rest of the
world. The longer this shock goes on, of
course, it's going to change forecast
numbers, but there's something a little
more nefarious happening under the
surface. We should be mindful of what
that divergence underneath the forecast
is going to do uh both to households but
also to their sentiment shocks, how they
vote. There are big implications to
these shocks that are very um that
create these divergences.
>> Francis, appreciate the update. Good to
see you as always. Francis Donald of RBC
from stag light to medium grade
stagflation. Neither's good and one's
worse unfortunately. This is from
Barclays. I think this is the boldest
move I've possibly seen in the last 3
weeks in financial markets. Vinu Krishna
raising a price target on the S&P 500 to
7650 from 7400
just yesterday.
>> Yeah, just again and he's not completely
alone. I think that JP Morgan also has a
pretty high bogey when it comes to what
they're expecting for the remainder of
the year to raise their forecast. He
might be alone. I am curious how much
people are seeing that earnings
estimates are getting revised to the
upside. You were talking about that at
the beginning of the show and I think
it's a really important point. People
look at that AI dominance still very
present and saying you can still get all
in and frankly the rest of the world's
going to go all in as well.
>> We believe the US continues to offer
stronger nominal growth than other major
economies and a secular growth engine in
technology that shows few signs of
stopping. Raising the outlook over at
Barclays Venu Krishna amazing from New
York City this morning. Good morning to
you all. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance up next.
We'll really start to see that energy
price shock feeding through in the March
data.
>> Central banks are going to be as hawkish
as possible without hiking.
>> The Fed is going to have to become a lot
more dovish in the medium term.
>> We think eventually that bond investors
will kind of wake up and smell that
disinflation coming. What's really
important is to take a step back, not
get too worked up.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
the price action looks like this.
Equities high by 0.8% on the S&P 500. On
the NASDAQ, up 1% in the bond market.
Yields down across the curve. Twos,
tens, and 30s. twos at 386. Only about
24 hours ago, 48 hours ago, we were
talking about 4% on a 2-year yield
following a very sloppy auction
yesterday. More auctions to come later
on this morning. We'll be looking ahead
to a 5-year and 7-year auction over the
next 24 hours. Setting the tone for this
market. This move right here in crude
WTI and Brent lower by 6%. Brent crude
at 98, WTI at 87. There is a lot of
faith being put in the diplomatic
process between the US and Iran. a
process that Iran denies is even
happening.
>> Yeah. As Bob Elliot of Unlimited uh
funds said on Twitter or X, whatever you
want to call it, echoing what you said,
the challenge right now is that there
are two possible futures, escalation and
deescalation with nearly opposite
economic outcomes and asset returns.
Question that I have an increasing
number of investors have. At what point
do you reach diminishing upside just by
virtue of how long this conflict goes
on? And yes, you can get potential talks
as one side is saying, no talks as the
other side is saying. you can maybe get
to a resolution. What does normal look
like? And do we get the straight of
vermoose operating in a way that
actually does help facilitate the flow
of a fifth of the world's oil and gas?
>> It depends how you look at it. There's a
major difference between short-term
transit risk, the straight of horrors
and reopening down in traffic moving
again and long-term production problems.
This has already shifted towards
long-term production problems and we'll
have to grapple with that for months.
Even if this war is addressed, settled,
peace comes tomorrow. The problem now
already is arriving in the data.
stagflationary risk arriving in the
PMIs, output down, prices up, and you're
starting to hear more and more companies
warn about what they believe is also a
disconnect between the physical world
that they experience and the paper
markets we're talking about on a daily
basis.
>> You put United Airlines right there in
that considering the fact that Scott
Kirby is talking about $100 a barrel on
average through the remainder of 2027,
saying the prices are going to have to
rise for airline tickets and that he
expects demand to go down. How much are
people thinking about that growth shock?
that doesn't seem to be in the equation
when people look at the response by
central bankers which is why they're
starting to price in rate hikes. It is a
very murky situation. The fact that you
mentioned the 2-year yield really
interesting given the option yesterday
incredibly messy for a 2-year yield.
Today we've got $70 billion of 5year
notes. Tomorrow $44 billion of
seven-year notes. How do people get any
certainty around how to price the path
of inflation and frankly term premium
given the backdrop that we're looking at
right now? Futures this morning, rosy
positive up again on the S&P 500.
Looking ahead to a few days of very
important talks potentially between the
US and Iran. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with David Levitz of JP Morgan
Asset Management with equities rising on
deescalation hopes. Cladio Galenerti of
Ricead Energy on normalizing throws
through the straight of Hormuz and
Richard Clara of Pimco as central banks
assess the Iran war shock. We begin this
hour with stocks grinding higher as
crude swings. David Leitz of JP Morgan
Asset Management writing, "We see more
opportunity in US equities as the
economy is more insulated from the
energy shock than the rest of the
world." David joins us now for more.
David, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How are you characterizing this energy
shock to clients at the moment?
>> So, I whenever there's a geopolitical
event, we try to take a step back and
think about what is the transmission
mechanism by which this could impact the
economy. There are usually two channels,
one being fiscal spending, the other
being commodity prices. And I think the
point that you were just making about
it's not only the level to which energy
prices rise but the the duration at
which they stay there that really causes
a problem because you know first it
shows up at the pump and that was
evident on Sunday when we were coming
back from the grocery store. Then it
begins to show up in goods prices more
broadly then it begins to show up in
services prices and I think that's
really the concern right now and that's
what volatilities are telling you. If
you look at the move index, it still
remains very elevated, reflecting that
uncertainty around where prices are
headed and what that inflation growth
mix is going to look like going over.
>> People are reflecting on a 2022 type
shock all over again and a shock to the
market. And to be clear what we mean by
that,
>> stocks and bonds both struggle. Is it
different in 2026?
>> So, I think that there's a little bit of
an offset which does make it slightly
different, which is we do have fiscal
stimulus coming through this year. So
there is a bit of an offset on the
growth side that wasn't necessarily
there back in 2022. But you know when I
think about it from a portfolio
perspective, we are looking at a world
where stock bond correlations are flat
to slightly positive. That means
diversification isn't as easy to find as
perhaps it is in a more normal
negatively correlated environment. And
that necessitates the use of things like
real assets, not necessarily gold, but
things like real estate and
infrastructure as a way of protecting
yourself while we figure out exactly
what the world's going to look like uh
going forward. Do you think that in some
ways you could even upgrade your
expectation for US equities based on the
growth and based on the fact that
suddenly the rest of the world is seeing
the US as something of a haven again
after rejecting it for a couple of
months?
>> It's funny how perceptions can change
very quickly. But I think you make a
good point which is you know the US
we've seen energy intensity come down
over time. We are a net exporter of
energy at the end of the day. We are
much more insulated from this shock than
is the case for the rest of the world.
You also think about the nature of our
businesses, right? We tend to be very
oriented towards capital light,
technology, communication, services, so
on and so forth. That's going to be the
final frontier where I think you see
these inflationary pressures show up.
Where are they going to show up more
quickly, goods, staples, materials, and
that's going to be punitive for some
markets if it does result in demand
destruction. And so we are viewing US
equities as a bit of a safe haven in
this environment. uh at despite coming
into the year with more of a
constructive view on opportunities
outside.
>> What's fascinating is how much this year
rhymes with last year. Everyone was
talking about the broadening out at the
beginning of 2025, how the broader
economy would really experience a wave
of growth. Then all of a sudden it was a
magnificent 7 again after liberation
day. Are we going back to that kind of
dynamic? Because the growth is going to
come from price inelastic investments
tied to technology, not necessarily the
consumer feeling good about their
situation. So I do think that we are
going back to a world where people view
technology and growth stocks in the US
as a bit more defensive. But I do think
that there's going to be more
differentiation going forward. I'm not
sure it's going to be this blind buy of
the Magnificent 7 that we've seen over
the past couple of years. The reason for
that is that we have concerns in the
credit market and those concerns in the
credit market are directly tied to
software and technology. And so, you
know, I think people are going to put
their uh push their spectacles up their
nose, if you will, when they're looking
at these investments going forward. And
it's not going to be about buying the
beta. It's going to be about
understanding as we go from adoption to
implementation of a lot of these
technologies where those alpha
opportunities actually exist.
>> I found myself doing that all the time.
>> I do. I found myself doing that without
even glasses
>> often when you're looking at the bond
market
>> just you know going like this
>> and overpriced equities.
>> Inevitable when things get messy that
people look for anchors and secular
tailwinds. The question I have at the
moment when it comes to tech and the
secular tailwinds is just how cyclical
the AI ecosystem might turn out to be in
the next 12 months. So I I do think that
you are going to see a period where
volatility
is challenged to decline both on the
rate side as well as on the equity side.
I do think that there are some concerns
around you know can debt markets absorb
the issuance that's coming from the
hyperscalers do we have enough power to
get these data centers you know when
they are up and running to get them
functioning you know what is adoption
actually look like I mean to me this is
kind of like the the trillion dollar
question if you look at the business
trend and outlook survey that the census
bureau produces you are seeing more and
more businesses adopt AI in their
day-to-day but are we really seeing
those productivity benefits I think that
that saying that we're already seeing
them to my mind is a bridge too far And
I think that's what investors are really
looking for. You know, they talk about
the ROI on all of this. We're going to
see it once it's there. Nobody's going
to have an edge trying to forecast
exactly where that shows up. The
question is, are we seeing the
productivity benefits? Because to bring
it back to the beginning, that's the
cure for inflation should it begin to
>> when business is good and financial
conditions are loose, it's easy to come
out and say things like the greatest
risk right now is underinvesting and not
overinvesting. And we've heard that from
tech CEO after tech CEO. Let's go
through the scenario. Let's say
financial conditions tighten and let's
say business is not as good over the
next 12 months. Who is upping their
outlook for capex in the next 12 months
and how many companies are forced
pressured by this market to do the
opposite to cut?
>> So I I I think more in the long term and
there's a very tight relationship
between capital spending and profit
growth and so what we need to watch here
and earnings estimates have been
incredibly resilient given everything
that's been going on uh over the past
couple of weeks. We need to watch what
happens with profitability because if
the money continues to come through the
door, even at a slower pace, I do think
you'll continue to see investment by
these large technology firms. But if you
really begin to see profitability hit
the skids and miss to the downside in a
notable way, that's going to force their
hand in the opposite direction. That's
going to create questions among the
investment community, is the ROI
actually there? You know, are they
pulling back on their investment because
they don't have the cash or they pulling
back on their investment because they're
seeing something else. To build on what
John is talking about, there already has
been a slight tightening of finan
financial conditions, but from pretty
loose levels, and you still are seeing
things getting done. If the Fed hikes
rates, and there's right now a one in
five chance of the Fed hiking rates,
does that torpedo the cycle in a
material way that is experienced in the
equity market and beyond?
>> I I'm not sure that it torpedoes the
economic cycle, but I think it creates a
significant challenge for for the equity
market. You know, coming into the year
looking for one to two cuts. Now, we're
talking about hikes. We're not just
talking about hikes in the US, right?
We're talking about hikes around the
world. That creates a more challenging
environment in a situation that you're
already seeing that fragility begin to
come through. Now, I think again the US
economy can take a few more punches than
the rest of the world given that fiscal
support and given the health of the
consumer, but obviously higher
short-term rates, greater term risk
premia, tighter financial conditions.
That's tough if you're a risk-on
investor.
>> David, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thanks for dropping by. David
Lebertz there of JP Morgan asset
management. I was just thinking about
the Catrini research piece from a number
of weeks ago, which of course no one
talks about anymore because of this war
and the nightmare that they envisioned,
which is ultimately that companies would
substitute OPEX for capex if the ROI was
big enough that you would see people cut
their staffs to increase the capex to
replace them with AI and agentic
intelligence and then the spiral, the
deadly spiral begins in the year ahead.
And we hope we go nowhere near that
stuff.
>> But they're not alone. I mean anthropic
the anthropic CEO has been banging the
table saying the exact same thing that a
significant portion of white collar jobs
are going to go away and you are seeing
these job cuts being announced. You can
argue why they are being announced at
places like Block and whether it really
is tied to AI but yesterday it just
shows how we're not out of the woods
when you have Amazon AWS come out with
new AI technology that torpedoes
software stocks yet again and raises
questions about the value there. So this
isn't going away and I think it's a
really important question. This is not
going to win me any friends in that
community. I really don't trust a lot of
the stuff coming out of the leadership
teams of the companies that are being
run by these guys. I really don't trust
some of the lines. I wonder what the
motives are. I wonder what's behind it.
Some of the lines coming out of these
companies just feel so offside to
reality. When you turn around and say
you're going to lose 40% of the staff in
any given occupation, you've got to
wonder just what's behind that. Is it on
the edge of arrogance?
Is it well informed? How is the
government going to respond to that? How
do you think the government's going to
respond to that? If you lost 40% 50% of
white collar work in the next 18 months,
how much tax do you think that company's
going to face? if that's going to be the
case. All those things I it's getting
increasingly concerning these
individuals that run these companies
that could have all this power in years
to come.
>> And part of this is a lobbying effort in
Washington DC to get ahead of some of
those measures. They can get in on the
ground regulating it now before they're
regulated later in ways that maybe they
don't really want.
>> Of course, the media that covers these
stories, they want the access with the
CEOs, right? So they entertain some of
these ideas without pushing back
aggressively.
>> I would argue you are getting market
push back. Not so much with Anthropic,
although on the margins, but with
OpenAI. A number of people have actually
cancelled their deals with OpenAI and
investments. There is more scrutiny, but
not to the level that you're talking
about.
>> Lost enough friends already. Equity
futures positive by 0.9% on the S&P.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The US drafting a 15-point
plan to end the war in Iran. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the plan
was delivered to Iran via Pakistan. The
details of the proposal are unclear, but
President Donald Trump has said publicly
any agreement would have to include a
prohibition on Iran ever obtaining a
nuclear weapon. We are seeing arm shares
surging 12 a.5% in the pre-market
following an announcement that the
semiconductor designer will start
selling its own chips for the first
time. TSMC will produce the chips and
its first major customer for the product
will be Meta. Of course, the company
expects the new business to generate
about $15 billion annually within 5
years. And US mortgage rates climbing
for a third straight week, according to
mortgage bankers association data, home
financing costs have risen to the
highest levels since October. The
group's index of mortgage applications
for home purchases fell 5.4% last week,
the biggest drop since January. District
brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program,
President Trump's big triumph.
>> We've won this. This war has been won.
The leaders are all gone. Nobody knows
who to talk to, but we're actually
talking to the right people, and they
want to make a deal so badly.
>> We'll get into those talks in just a
moment. Adam Hudge of Bully Pulpit
International joins us next.
Equity futures positive here by 0.9% on
the S&P 500. A lift across the equity
board on the NASDAQ up by 1 percentage
point. Bond yields lower across the
curve. Twos out to 30s. Two year this
morning 386. 10's at 431 later on this
afternoon. Some issuance to look out
for. 5-year notes today, 7-year notes
tomorrow. Setting the tone for this
market. This move right here. Brent and
WTI lower on the diplomatic front.
Things improving apparently. We're down
by more than 6% on Brent to 97. WTI at
8660 under surveillance this morning.
President Trump's big triumph.
We've won this. This war has been won.
They have no navy left. They have no air
force left. They have no anti-aircraft
equipment left. No radar left. No
leaders left. The leaders are all gone.
Nobody knows who to talk to. But we're
actually talking to the right people and
they want to make a deal so badly.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
US sending a 15-point peace plan to
Iran. Thran signaling little willingness
to compromise. Amarie joins us now from
Washington for more. Morning, Amarie.
>> Good morning, Jonathan. Well, what we're
seeing from the Iranians is a very much
so, as you say, not there when it comes
to compromise. Iran's armed forces had
this to say. the level of your internal
conflicts has reached the point where
you are negotiating with yourselves.
When it comes to this 15-point peace
plan, according to Pakistani officials
speaking to the Associated Press, the
Iranians have been delivered it. And a
lot of on the table is things that we've
been talking about and this
administration was already talking to
the Iranians about before the conflict
began. And I want to talk about how the
United States is conducting this
conflict. We're joined by our colleague
right now, Katrina Manson. She just
wrote this entire book about project
maven which is being used right now from
the DoD to deploy this war in Iran. And
yesterday the Palunteer CTO Katrina told
our colleagues Ed Lolo and Caroline Hyde
that when you look back this will be the
first big conflict where AI is part of
it. What are you seeing?
>> Yes. He said that this conflict is uh
we'll look back and see that it was
driven enhanced and made substantially
more productive by the help of AI. It's
an interesting turn of phrase. I think
it points to the number of targets the
US has been hitting. 9,000 more than
9,000 so far, more than a thousand in
the first 24 hours of the operations.
And that comes down to Maven Smart
System, a product that Palanteer makes
that can rapidly identify targets and
pair them with weapons. Now that's not
to say that hitting targets alone is the
answer, but speeding those processes has
perhaps boyed US confidence that they
could deliver a result and it maybe
accelerated their some of their targets
in terms of strategic targets for trying
to win this conflict. We also heard
though from the president's former
defense official yesterday, Jim Mattis,
who was saying that hitting targets is
not enough. Yes, he really focused on
this word targetry to say targetry is no
substitute for strategy and the whole
point of AI bringing that breadth of
data into the battlefield has always
been claimed to be about bringing
greater intelligence for decision-m so
if it has enabled hitting a lot of
military targets without understanding
the impact that taking those targets out
might have there's really a disconnect
and I think the US military operators
will have to focus on uh what it is that
actually starts and ends a war and
perhaps Trump will be asking chatbots,
how do I open the straight of Hormuz?
>> Wow. Potentially that's going on right
now at the DoD. Katrina Manson, thank
you so much for your time and I've
started her book. Absolutely incredible
to understand how AI has been working
through the Department of Defense and
how it's being used right now on the
ground. But Jonathan, to back that up,
we also need to bring up to the point.
Two Marine expeditionary units are on
their way to the Middle East, as well as
being deployed. 2,000 soldiers from the
82nd Airborne.
>> Amory, appreciate the update. Down in
Washington, DC, the prospect of facing
down substantial two-way risk heading
into the weekend. Let's talk about the
diplomatic effort. Adam Hard, Bully
Pulpit International, saying the White
House doesn't have the structure or
people in place to find a durable
solution to the war they started. Adam
joins us now for more. Adam, good
morning. Good to be here.
>> Good to see you in person. So, let's get
to a question we've asked many times in
the past three weeks. When we say Iran,
who are we talking about? When the US
says we're talking to Iran, who are they
talking about?
>> It's really unclear. I mean, what you've
heard from the president in comments he
made yesterday that we've killed most of
the people that we were then talking to.
Even at the start of the war, he said
there's all these people that we're
going to talk to, but now most of them
are dead. It's hard to negotiate and
have a real you find a real deal if
you've killed the people that you could
be offering the the deal with. And I
think the key question that I have going
forward is how do they actually resolve
this war in a way that is durable, that
is sustainable. And I and I keep coming
back to the fact that you need people in
place who understand the country, who
understand the ins and outs of of the
market in the in the region to really
reach a lasting deal. And you get a lot
of mixed signals over the last couple
days. It's one thing to have some sort
of cohesive crew in the United States.
It's another thing to understand who we
is when this is a multiaceted war being
fought uh by Israel uh with increasing
participation or at least buy and say
from Saudi Arabia and UAE and other
regional countries. How do how closely
do you think that all of these different
nations are aligned right now with
signals coming out of the White House?
I've been a little bit concerned with
what it seems to be a somewhat of a rift
or a gap between the US and Israel and
some of the strategic priorities and I
think that is a question like how do
they continue to coordinate? Do they
continue to attack the right targets? Do
they is that uh coordination continue
that I think going forward is is a
question I think you've seen reports
Muhammad bin Salman in Saudi Arabia
openly pushing the the White House and
the president to go deeper into Iran.
You've got 5,000 50,000 troops already
in in the region. The Marine
Expeditionary Unit on its way. They're
not going there to get a suntan, right?
They're there to do lethal work. The
82nd Airborne also very lethal. And so I
think that is a a sign to Iran that this
is a good chance that this conflict does
continue. And they just have to look
back to what happened at the start of
this conflict. They were negotiating
a deal. they were willing to give up
their enrichment and we then bombed
them. So I don't think that they're if
you get a 15-point plan, they're going
to be all that quick to try to resolve
this conflict if they are watching the
same vessels and the same troops moving
to the region.
>> At the same time, the Democrats have
come out and tried to pass legislation
putting a stop to some of the incursion
by the US in the region. Do you think
that that is a viable solution given the
fact that essentially that would give
Iran control over this crucial waterway
should the US walk away now?
>> I mean, I think what Democrats say is
like we should never have gotten into
this conflict in the first place, right?
And so, the quickest way to get uh is to
find a negotiated solution to the uh to
the war. Now, like we're in this box.
We're in this Pandora's box that the
president got us in. And so it is
ultimately the president's
responsibility to get us out of it. I
think the key is if you do hold back
some of the funding for the the war. It
puts the pressure on the president to do
that. And now I think that is without
boots on the ground right now the
defense department has all the money
that they need to wage this war. I think
the more you start putting if American
boots go on the ground, which the
president said was a red line from the
beginning of his administration, then it
becomes a harder uh political issue for
the Democrats to to hold on to. But for
right now, I think they're on pretty
firm footing.
>> Adam, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thanks for breaking it down.
Adam Hoe of Bully Pulpit International
on the very complicated and I think we
should stress that very complicated
diplomatic effort heading into the
weekend.
>> It is incredibly complicated because we
don't know who's negotiating with who.
We don't have a sense of how concrete
any deal could possibly be. We don't
understand exactly what kind of
consensus there is among people who are
uh ostensibly fighting in tandem. And
it's unclear how dependable any kind of
truce could be given the fact that Iran
is waging uh an existential battle and
is now claiming this power in a way that
it knows it can use as a cudgel. It is
talking about how oil prices need to go
higher to exert that influence and that
pain on the global economy to show their
clout. So, this is an incredibly
difficult situation on every single
front.
>> We keep framing the calendar. We should
keep going back to the calendar. Adam
talked about it. By the weekend, you've
got a new deadline, a self-imposed
deadline by the president. Let's talk
about the original deadline. It was to
really escalate things and go after
Iranian power plants. That's been pushed
back. We avoided the escalation, but
it's been pushed back, delayed
potentially. you face substantial
two-way risk into the weekend. Either
you get the ceasefire, a diplomatic
resolution of some kind. I've got no
idea how durable that would be, or you
end up in a situation where you have an
increased military presence in the
region by the time you get to the
weekend and a totally different
different option about how to progress
and move forward.
>> This is a reason why a lot of people
feel pretty paralyzed and that's why
it's pretty shocking that Vina Krishna
actually increased his target for the
S&P 500.
>> It's a trade for the brave. I respect
that. I respect that. Make a call. He's
making a bold call. We'll catch up with
Venu in the next week or so. Up next on
the program, Cladio Galenerti of Ricead
Energy on stabilizing flows through the
straight of hum.
It is the first thing we look at every
single morning. It looks like this this
morning. I'm sure you're intrigued if
you're just waking up. It's lower, by
the way. Crude down by 6%. Brent back to
98. WTI down by 6%. Also 86.84. 84
setting the tone for this in the equity
market. Equity futures higher across the
board up by 9/10en of 1% on the S&P on
the NASDAQ up by 1/4 percentage point in
the bond market. Actually quite a
volatile couple of days in fixed income
and you don't usually see that
volatility at the front end of the
curve. The 2-year usually very sensitive
to what the Fed rate path might be.
yields down by three basis points. And
usually when you get a back up in
yields, say 4% on twos, which by the way
is above Fed funds right now, you get a
decent set of demand coming into the
market as well. You did not see that
yesterday at that auction.
>> Yeah. Not only did you have dealers take
down the greatest amount going back to
2022 of this 2-year yield auction, but
you saw yields go up, actually sold at a
higher level, priced lower at the actual
auction. That's where they traded
immediately after the sale, highlighting
that people didn't feel like they were
being efficiently uh sufficiently uh
compensated. How do you make any trade
in this market given the fact that you
could be whipsawed by a headline, given
the fact that you don't know who you're
playing against and given the fact that
the backdrop is just so uncertain?
>> I'm pleased you went there. Let's go
there.
>> Okay. If you're in the market right now
and you've witnessed the past few days,
particularly what happened on Monday
morning, is that going to lead you to
reduce how much money you put at play in
this market right now? Does that lead to
a reduction in liquidity? That's what
I'm trying to figure out in the next few
weeks if this carries on. If you keep
believing the perception that someone
has a line, some information that you
don't have and that you're vulnerable to
a headline or a social media post in the
next several minutes, do you want to
take risk in that kind of market?
Because the kind of market that gets
fantastic liquidity is the kind of
market that has fantastic transparency.
And if you start to question the lack of
transparency, I just wonder what happens
ultimately to liquidity.
>> So anecdotally, I've been speaking to a
number of investors over the past week
and they all say, I can't trade this.
This is completely untradable. This is a
market that does not feel like it is
rational or something that I could have
an edge in. They are pulling back. You
see that on the margins with cash uh
balances going up. Whether this leads to
a full pullback in liquidity, I think is
a fair question. inconclusive at this
point. It feels like a casino where you
thought you were playing at the poker
table and now you're playing at the slot
machine and the house has rigged it
every single time. And it is not a fun
place to be.
>> Coin flipping at the moment really does
feel that way. Trillion dollar coin
flips at the moment. Equity futures
still positive by about 1% on the S&P
500. 2 hours away from the opening bow.
Let's get you some morning movers.
Yahihara has more for you. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Airline stocks have felt the
brunt of this conflict, but today they
are all higher as investors lean into
signs that the situation with Iran may
not be getting worse, at least for now.
But the backdrop for the airlines
remains strained. We still have an
ongoing partial government shutdown. So
lines out the door at airports. Still
United CEO telling Lisa yesterday that
demand remains strong despite all the
issues going at going on in that sector.
Uh meanwhile, moving on to KB Homes,
those shares are down 4 and a4% after
the builder issued a weaker than
expected forecast for deliveries. The
company pointing to a more cautious
cautious consumer still concerned about
affordability. And adding to that, KB
Home saying that concerns around the
Middle East conflict are creating
another level of uncertainty for buyers.
Add to that a still elevated yield and
it's a tough time to buy a home. And we
end on ARM shares on a good note. Those
shares rising nearly 13% in the
pre-market as the company moves to start
selling its own chips for the first
time, moving beyond its traditional
licensing model. It's a big pivot as it
takes aim at the growing data center
market tied to AI. And the company
expects this business to generate about
$15 billion annually within 5 years.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara a little bit later on our
rate down this morning. The United
States proposing a 15-point peace plan
to end the war in Iran. The plan
reportedly requiring Thran to dismantle
all of its nuclear capabilities and
fully reopen the strain of Form.
Elsewhere, Iran allowing some foreign
vessels to pass through that straight.
Officials saying ships can cross as long
as they are not supporting acts of
aggression against the country. And
finally, elsewhere, the DOJ admitting it
found no evidence of a crime in its
investigation into the Federal Reserve
renovation project. The revelation
reportedly coming during a closed door
hearing earlier this month. The judge
calling the probe an illegal attempt to
pressure Fed chair Jay Pal.
>> First of all, can I just say remember
and I'm I'm reminiscing fondly. Remember
when we were thinking that this was such
a big story? This was the biggest story
of the day. Sort of a question about the
fate of the Fed chair and just this
shenanigan with respect to what the
Justice Department would do. Look, this
goes back to the point that you and
Amarie have been making a lot, which is
why didn't the Trump administration, why
didn't the US attorney take the win and
just simply say, "Okay, Supreme Court or
okay, court system, we'll just simply
drop this case, allow the nomination
process of Kevin Worsh to go through and
be done with this. Why dig your heels
in?" And this just adds to questions
around that.
>> I don't know. Here is what I do know. As
things stand, things could get very,
very messy this summer based on the
three-point plan that came from Chairman
Pal in the news conference last week,
which is I'm going to stay if no one's
confirmed. I'm going to stay if the DOJ
investigation hasn't wrapped up, and I'm
not committing to leaving, even if those
other two things happen. I might stay on
the board of governors for the time
being until that term expires. Stay
tuned. Think about what that might look
like later this summer. I think the
administration is already thinking about
it and they've signaled that they will
probably contest it legally and that
they don't think that there is
necessarily the prompor
precedent to have him stay on as Fed
chair. That in the past when someone has
stayed on as Fed chair, they were going
to be already the next Fed chair. They
just hadn't yet been confirmed. It
wasn't necessarily waiting for the
confirmation of another figure. It may
get messy. Whether it affects the path
of an already highly volatile Fed funds
rate just gives you a sense of how much
is at stake.
>> It's not going to help. That's for sure.
We'll catch up with the former Fed vice
chair Richard Clauder a little bit later
this hour. We get his thoughts on the
politics and on the policy. Let's talk
about crude prices falling this morning
as President Trump signals a possible
off-ramp for the war with Iran. Cladio
Galenberti of Ricead energy writing even
if a ceasefire were to be agreed today
it will still take at least a month a
couple of months to normalize the flows
through the straight of Cladio joins us
now for more Claudia welcome to the
program we've seen headlines coming out
of Asia about rationing we've seen those
building over the past few weeks how
long before we start seeing similar
things in places like Europe and maybe
even places like California
>> thank you for inviting me and Lisa uh I
think we are only weeks away from uh a
situation of rationing if the straight
of hormones remains virtually closed.
Now there are some good news of course
coming today from from the White House
potentially from Thran uh and uh that we
we should welcome those but let's not
forget that as of today 10 million bars
a day of production in the Middle East
are shutting and this is an
unprecedented situation and the
benchmarks for Asia for crude in Asia
are still well above $120 $130 per
barrel and these I think are more
representative of the situation on the
ground. So the uh uh the the rationing
that we begin to see right now in Asia
was well forecasted and before long if
the straight of mus is not reopened
we'll see it in um in Europe. As far as
the United States is concerned the
situation is less of a problem because
the United States does not forget it is
a net oil exporter but even in the
United States in some parts we'll begin
to see some problem at some point.
Claudia, let's draw a distinction
between short-term transit risk, which
is the straightforward, anything can
happen there at any moment, and
long-term production problems. We've
seen damage to production facilities
already. That's going to take time to
repair physically.
>> What I think is less understood by
people outside of your world are the
wells themselves. We often talk about
them as if they're taps. You can turn
them off, turn them back on again. When
you shut in production, how difficult is
it to restart? How long can it take? The
rule of thumb says that the longer they
stay shut, the longer it's going to take
to bring them back to the previous level
and you might not get there. So let's
suppose that right now we are in the
third week, fourth week of the war. Uh
rule of thumb is going to take if if the
uh war ends today, it's going to take
four weeks to bring them back on
average. Of course, some it's going to
take a short amount of time, some is
going to take much longer, but on
average, that is the the rule of thumb.
And uh it's not a given that uh it's
going to cost a lot by the way to to
bring them back and it's not a given
that you get to the same level. So uh
it's uh it's always a complicated thing
and that's why all the producer are very
uh you know they don't want to do it.
They don't want to shut in. they exhaust
all the alternative eventually in this
case there was no alternative uh because
we were reaching containment in in the
tanks in started in in Iraq and then
pretty much right now it's it's all
around the the uh Middle Eastern
producer west of Suez so that's that's
unfortunate situation and that's the
reason why uh we need to be careful at
assuming that once the war is over then
the situation normalizes it's going to
take logistically and from the
production perspective months to go back
to normal and as you correctly pointed
out Jonathan for those facilities that
have been damaged by by the bombing and
by the missile that can take years right
so we know Russ Lafan and Qatar which is
the LG facility that may take three
years to according to to the Qatari and
we don't know how many facility have
been I mean there are some rumors that
there are more facility being damaged
across the Middle East than than we
actually know. So
>> Claudia, there two be aware of it.
>> There are two uh conclusions that you
could draw from this. One would be
because there could be destruction to
the actual production facilities that
take a longer takes a longer time to
bring back on that prices will be
higher. On the flip side, you could say
demand destruction is going to really
start to kick in, especially because
it's actual physical shortages in
certain places, particularly in Asia,
and that could potentially cap how high
prices could go. At what point has that
dynamic started to play into the uh
equation?
>> Excellent point, Lisa. I think that we
need to be careful at assuming that uh
demand will will be a shock absorber
because uh um we are talking about 10
million bars a day of shock on the
supply side to assume 10 million bars a
day or shock on the demand. It's
basically we need to go back to COVID,
right? So the remember when when we were
all shutting down and being inside the
house and that's not going to happen. So
there's going to be some rationing and
probably starting with petrochemical
because that is a very long supply chain
and therefore it can absorb basically
the rationing much better then then it's
going to be jet and then it's eventually
it's going to hit all the uh you know
transportation fuel made transportation
fuel diesel and gasoline if it
continues. But uh uh let's not forget
that we still have a lot of inventories
around the world. So things can do not
necessarily we're not necessarily in a
nightmare scenario. But at some point
the oil demand will start to be uh
curtailed. And uh but assuming that all
the supply is going to be matched the
supply shock is going to be matched by
demand that's really a very very dark
scenario. I don't I don't think that
that's going to happen. So what I think
is going to happen first is that if this
is not resolved, prices are going to
scale up at at very high level. At that
point, you're going to have some
discretionary travel is going to be
trimmed. We probably going to have some
impact on the economy at some point
through inflation through higher
interest rates and then demand will
start to fall. But uh it's going to take
some time even for the demand to uh to
actually uh readjust. So it's uh it's a
long process. We are still in the middle
of that I'm afraid.
>> Hey Cladio, it's good to see you. Thanks
for the update. Let's do it again soon.
Cladio Calaberti there of Ricead Energy.
I'm not enjoying the phrase demand
destruction at the moment. Understand
where it comes from, but it almost
implies the prices get so high that
people just aren't willing to pay them.
When actually what it means right now in
places like Asia is just pure shortages.
Demand is being destroyed because people
can't access the thing they need. It's a
shortage problem in so many of these
places and the price is a reflection of
that shortage. Wasn't it uh Jeff Curry
who came out and said that we will
experience what happens with respect to
people understanding the scope of this
energy situation when there are lines
>> at uh at the uh the pump. And that I
think really goes to what you're saying.
It's not that people don't want to pay.
It's when people won't be able to access
the gasoline to power their vehicles and
have to go from gas station to gas
station. And that I think is what a lot
of people are worried about.
>> Different way of framing things. Of
course, you'll see both to a certain
extent, but it's the shortages that I
think is just front and center right
now. And the Shell CEO basically saying
that what you're seeing in Asia, you'll
see in Europe next. That's when people
might start to wake up big time to this
cascading through the global economy and
not just being a problem for Asian
importers.
>> And there is a demand destruction aspect
to it that actually is people choosing
not to pay. And that is when the prices
are passed through different goods and
services and suddenly people start to
ration how much they go out ration how
much they travel and that is the hit
that people are very concerned about
right now how that plays through at a
stagflationary type of feel in the
market.
>> The story better in energy this morning
we're down by 5 to 6% Brent at about
9856.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey
yhara. On that note, John Chevron is
warning that California is heading
toward an energy crisis because of the
war in Iran. California is highly
exposed to the disruption because it
imports about 20% of its refined fuels
from Asia, which is struggling, as you
said, to meet its own demand. Chevron
says it may quit refining oil in
California within a decade unless
officials cut taxes and regulations.
OpenAI plans to discontinue its Sora AI
video generator and wind down its
partnership with Disney. The move
coincides with the Chat GP teammakaker
push to streamline its product lineup.
In the staff memo, CEO St. Sam Alman
saying it plans to reorganize to raise
capital and focus on infrastructure
projects.
And JP Morgan chairman and CEO Jamie
Diamond says China is beating the US in
specific strategic areas and needs needs
to acknowledge Beijing's advancements.
>> Our GDP per person is 80 $85,000. This
is 15. We should acknowledge they've
done some things magnificently well. We
should look at our own shortcomings then
and then be prepared if they ever become
an adversary to, you know, to face off
against.
Diamond also warning that AI could cost
the US jobs and suggested the government
could create an incentive system for
businesses to help soften the blow.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yahara in the next hour. Up
next on a program committing to
anchoring inflation.
We will not be paralyzed by hesitation
because our commitment to delivering 2%
inflation over the medium term is
unconditional. Up next, we'll catch up
with Richard Cloud of PIMCO, the former
Fed vice chair, right here in the
studio.
Just off session highs, stocks are still
positive by 0.8% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, higher by 1 percentage point.
Setting the tone for this is what's
happening in the energy market. Crude
lower on Brent and WTI down by some 5%.
Brent's around 99, WTI around 87. Some
confidence apparently in the diplomatic
push from the US side heading into this
weekend. Well, the signal is actually
important, which is at least
rhetorically the US is deescalating and
pushed back the uh the accusations about
what would happen should there not be
some sort of agreement. This alone was
enough to get people somewhat excited.
>> Signal is important. Substance is too.
And at the moment, Iran says there is no
diplomatic effort to engage in.
>> Well, yeah, Pakistan's maybe doing this.
And let's just take it as bullish.
>> We often ask all the time, who is Iran?
Who is talking to who? And when Iran
denies it, who is Iran and who is saying
that? And it's very complicated right
now. Imagine being a central banker
trying to set policy under Savannah this
morning committing to anchoring
inflation.
And we will not act before we have
sufficient information on the size and
persistence of the shock and its
propagation.
But we will not be paralyzed by
hesitation
because our commitment to delivering 2%
inflation over the medium term is
unconditional. So here's the latest this
morning. The ECB among central banks
assessing its next moves as the extent
of the Iran war energy shock remains
unknown. Joining us now to discuss is
the former Fed vice chair and global
economic adviser of Pimco, an old friend
of this program, Richard Clarator. Rich,
good to see you, sir.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you for being here. This feels
different for the ECB versus the Fed. Is
that fair?
>> I think it's fair. I think obviously the
shock is probably going to be larger for
them given their imports of oil and and
natural uh uh gas. Also remember the ECB
has a single mandate. Their job is price
stability. The Fed has a dual mandate.
And so I think they are data dependent.
I take them at their word. Uh I don't
think a hike is a slam dunk, but it's
it's an option. Is this a shock you
should look through as a central banker?
>> My inclination would be to look through
it initially, although the caveat of
course is the last 5 years inflation's
been too damn high and above target. So
I think that's a case to maybe think a
little bit harder about it. But my
inclination would be to look through
especially uh uh given I think most
economies including the US are at a
point where if we do get a
stagflationary shock there there will be
a contraction in growth and higher
unemployment and central banks are going
to have to factor that in as well.
>> Well with the ECB right now markets are
pricing in a number of rate hikes for
the remainder of this year and in the
past there has been a history for the
ECB of hiking in the face of an oil
price shock. Do you think that would be
a policy error that would send the
region into recession?
>> I think it's a possible policy error.
You know, you don't have a crystal ball.
Lisa is a central banker, so you make
those judgment calls. But but you are
correct. Both in ' 08 and 2011, as I
recall, the the ECB was hiking when
headline inflation went up for an oil
shock and and both of those moves in
retrospect did not did not pan out too
too well. So I think that could be on
their mind. PIMCO recently put out a
paper pushing back against some of the
rate hike expectations in the United
States, saying it's a little bit
overdone given what the rhetoric has
been and the dual mandate that we're
facing. Do you think that a rate hike
that the bar is just so high that it
really wouldn't happen, especially under
Kevin Walsh uh worsh whenever he gets
in? Well, J Pal was asked that question
at the press conference and I think he
said again as he did in January um that
the committee is not really considering
a rate hike now and it's really not
something that uh they anticipate. You
do have some members of the committee, I
think some of the presidents who would
like the statement at least to
acknowledge there could be a rate hike.
I do think the bar is high for a couple
reasons. The Fed is a dualmandate
central bank. The unemployment rate is
low, but let's face it, job creation's
been virtually zero for the last year or
so, especially in the private sector.
And I don't think it would take much to
push the unemployment rate up. And I
think that'll also be a factor uh for
them. So, I think the most likely path
is the uncertainty in the Middle East
may put them on hold for a while, but I
think eventually uh this will be
resolved. It'll be in the rearview
mirror. And I think at that point Kevin
Walsh when he does arrive will will be
inclined to lower rates at least down to
the neutral level of around 3%.
>> Can I talk about football but the
international kind?
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Right.
>> Have you ever asked for permission to
talk about football?
>> When you are defending a corner the
rules of the games are ultimately the
unwritten rule of the game as a manager.
You shouldn't make a substitution in
that moment. You shouldn't change things
up. Things can get complicated. It feels
like we're doing more than just
defending a corner later on this summer.
And you've got the captain refusing to
come off potentially and another guy
that wants to come on. And this can get
really, really messy. Is this working? I
hope it's working.
>> I think it's great.
>> It's working. I'm with you. John,
>> can you explain to me what this is going
to look like later this summer? Well,
there's the very real prospect that at
least for a meeting or two or perhaps
more that you will have a Fed chair uh
Worsh and you'll have a governor pal who
remains on the committee. The last time
that happened was in the 1940s when a
Fed chair named Mariner Eckle stayed on
as a governor for four years when Truman
selected another chairman. Um and so I
think it could complicate things uh for
for Kevin Walsh. Kevin Walsh knows the
Fed. He was a governor. Kevin Marsh
understands that to raise or lower rates
or to buy or sell treasuries, you need
to get a committee vote. And so he only
has one vote. Um and and I think
obviously Pal if he stays on will be a
very persuasive voice on the on the
committee even as a governor. Pal,
>> do you think a chairman is right to
worry so much about central bank
independence that it requires him to
stay beyond his term as chair?
I think we're at a juncture where it's
important for the Fed as an institution
to demonstrate that it will make
decisions based upon its mandate. Um I
think Wars is a good choice to bring
that about. I expect he will get
confirmed. Um and will go in I think
with that with that support and
expectation. I would not expect Jay Pal
to stay on the Fed until the remainder
of his term which is January of 2028.
But I think given the circumstances that
we're in and in particular uh uh the
ongoing uh issues the Fed is navigating,
he may well stay on I think for for some
time.
>> Rich, you're a Jen. Thanks for
entertaining me. Appreciate it. Thank
you, sir. The former Fed vice chair,
Richard Clar now with PIMCO on the
future of this Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah. and how things might get messy,
but they will shake out given the fact
that frankly Kevin Worsh has been
represented and and and respected by a
lot of people who really fit within the
establishment of the economics
profession. So, it's not as though it is
a rogue character coming in, which
raises a question how much he can really
cut rates, although Rich did say to
neutral or below.
>> If this war continues, this is going to
be a really difficult moment to
communicate policy. And I don't think
you want confusion about leadership at
that moment. And that's what that's what
where we might be in a few months time.
>> I'm just watching the move index, right?
>> I mean, that's essentially giving you a
sense of just how much concern there is
and lack of clarity.
>> No more football in the next hour. Don't
worry. Coming up, Stuart Kaiser of City,
Chrisen Love of Piper Sander, the
Republican Senator Dave McCormick, and
Matt Zizok of Merrill and Bank of
America Private Bank.
It's just so difficult to determine
what's going to happen next in this
market.
>> If we continue to see this volatility,
there likely will be long-term buying
opportunities.
>> There is a big disconnect between the
physical and the financial markets.
>> The risk aversion has been increasing
dramatically.
>> At the end of the day, we have to ask
ourselves the questions whether or not
these positive trends can continue after
the war. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now.
The price action, your scores look like
this. Session highs up 1% on the S&P
500. Similar move elsewhere in the
Nasdaq up by 1.2. The Russell up by 1.4.
In the bond market, yields declining
across the curve. Twos, tens, 30s, twos
down three, 10's down five. 431 on a
10-year maturity and setting the tone
for markets worldwide. This board right
here, WTI and Bren Bren crude down by
close to 6%. Likewise on WTI crude, a
lot of faith, a lot of hope in the
diplomatic effort and the push coming
from the US side heading into the
weekend.
>> Yeah, and it's not just in the actual
futures, but when you take a look at the
six-month and 12-month curve, you're
also seeing levels come in. there seems
to be more of a sense that the signal is
more important than the noise when it
comes to the signal is more important
than the substance when it comes to
President Trump. The fact that there was
a ratcheting down in the pace of
rhetoric and just how heated things were
that there wasn't some sort of attack on
oil features uh in Iran seemed to be
rejoiced upon by markets that have been
absolutely beset by a slew of headlines.
>> I've never liked the taco phrase and we
can get into that another time. It takes
two to taco is a phrase I've heard a
million times over the past three weeks
or so. This is not just in the
president's hands. It's a run on board
with this. They came out in the last few
weeks and said, "We want to make sure
that this never happens again. Establish
a long-term durable deterrence." Now,
they're going to have a lack of trust
when they come into these talks. The US
will have a lack of trust coming into
these talks as well. justifiably so
given how Iran's behaved over the last
few decades. That makes it very
difficult to get this peace plan agreed
to in just several days time.
>> That's the reason why I don't totally
understand why this is a tradeable
market. And I'm sure our next guest will
explain why this is a tradable market in
any kind of way. How do you get any
edge? How do you get any conviction? How
do you get a sense of whether people are
overly bearish when you don't know how
long this is going to last? You don't
know whether this is a delay just to get
troops in position to potentially take
this a step further, which is a
speculation among some, including Iran.
I mean, there's so many questions here
that are so out of everybody's hands and
sight that I just wonder how you get
signal from this and say, I want to play
in that.
>> The fear of missing out seems to be
greater than the fear of losses right
now, even though we're confronting
substantial two-way risk in a few days
time.
>> And part of the reason why is because
people say look past the noise, if you
can call this noise and typically
geopolitics does not have a lost lasting
effect in equity markets. And US
equities still look good. Profits are
still increasing. You are seeing
companies particularly tech companies
investing heavily in their
infrastructure and they want to go back
to that and say look it can be a viable
dip. Whether that's the case remains to
be seen.
>> So buy stocks. Vinn Krishna over at
Barclays just sent me a message moments
ago as we've been talking about this
call raising your outlook on the S&P 500
at a moment like this one. Quality move.
I think that's bold. I respect it
whether it's right or wrong. 7650 is the
price target now over at Barclays.
They've raised the outlook for earnings
as well. They acknowledge that the
scenario analysis skues left. So more
bare downside than bull upside. But
ultimately the earnings outlook for them
is solid enough. The tech story is
strong enough that they've still got
this commitment, this faith, optimism,
if you will, in the US stock market
story.
>> Look, a lot of the big tech names are
still investing heavily and our price
and elastic because it is an expectation
of efficiency gains and revolution in
many uh in the eyes of many that is
worth the investment. And for that
reason alone, not only do some people
see them their prices uh and their
valuations going up, but they're
increasingly a haven for the rest of the
world that now are wondering, okay, what
about gold? Nah. What about Europe? Nah.
What about Asia? Uh and so suddenly the
US seems to be a better trade again.
>> As I apologize, it's not directed at
anyone in particular. Okay. Uh anyway,
I'm just making sure we clear that up
just in case someone's awake and they're
watching.
>> Look, no. I'm just saying like uh in
terms of whether it's behaving I'm
talking to clarify people are easily
offended these days.
>> All right. It's important to address
that.
>> Thank you. Thanks for trying to save me.
I appreciate that.
>> Equities on the S&P up by 1%. Coming up
this hour, Stuart Kaiser City. The
stocks whips by diplomatic efforts.
Chrisen Love of Piper Sandler. Stress
continues building in the private credit
markets and Senator Dave McCormack
breaking down President Trump's 15point
plan to end the war. We begin this hour
with stocks rebanning on hopes a
ceasefire might be on the horizon.
Stuart Kaiser City writing, "We're still
not buyers of the proverbial dip. The
tail risks from this event are time
dependent. The longer it lasts, the
worse they get." Stuart joins us now for
more. Stuart, good morning.
>> Hi, good morning.
>> How long are the tales from this one
already?
>> I think they're I think they're getting
pretty long. And you know, I think it
actually takes three to taco in this
case. And I would I would add in the
Gulf countries here that they need to be
accept accepting of of whatever this
resolution is because essentially their
economies are being held hostage by by
the straight of Hormuz. I think it's a
very complicated thing. I think you're
maybe playing for 3 to 5% to the upside
and your downside tail risk could be 10%
plus. So we just we just don't like the
riskreward here. I would say if you want
to be positive, you know, you had you
have had a lot of de-risking. The bar
for bad news is obviously exceptionally
high here and people remember what
happened last spring which was when
Trump started to soften his rhetoric.
You wanted to add risk. So, I think you
have this tactical, you know, trade
going on, but again, the medium-term
risks are extremely large here and and
we're we're, you know, being very
careful about it at this point.
>> Should we get to the Bremo question?
Let's just hit it head on. How tradable
is this market?
>> Uh, not very not very tradable. I mean,
it's been a very very difficult kind of
intraday, you know, trading environment.
A lot of the headlines are happening in
the overnights. You're getting large
moves that you couldn't even hedge or
risk manage to begin with. Um, so
extremely difficult. I think you also
have, you know, you mentioned AI. You've
had this environment too where you trade
Iran risk for two days, but then you'll
trade private credit risk for three or
four hours and then you'll trade AI risk
for six or seven hours. So like hedge
funds in particular who are thematically
invested are are getting kind of yanked
in three or four directions. So
extremely extremely untradable market I
would say.
>> Well, if John's going to ask my
question, I'll ask his question, which
is at what point do people withdraw
liquidity then from the market? Because
how do you get an edge given the fact
that you don't know who has more
information than you are? You don't know
who's putting on a big trade when it
comes to oil or when it comes to a
certain SL sleeve of equity holdings.
>> Yeah. And look, I I I think it is time
in the end. I mean, I think the
negative, you know, in that context is
that longerdated oil has started to
move. And the question I think on all of
this is do we just get the front down or
does that two-year oil which went from
60 to 70, you know, you know, start to
come in a little bit. I'd say the one
positive is that long only investors
have generally not participated in the
selling over the last couple weeks which
is positive because long only sells when
retail pulls out and long only sells
when they get extremely you know worried
about I think the macro condition. So
that would be the big risk I think is if
this lasts long enough that it becomes a
recessionary risk. Do you start then to
get long only money kind of pulling out
of the market and I think that would be
to your point liquidity sort of coming
out of the system. Has the deck already
been restacked? Not only with respect to
oil prices, but also the reaction
function from central banks. The idea
that we're pricing out rate cuts, you
can argue all you want about whether
rate hikes are truly on the table in the
United States. It is a very different
backdrop. Does that automatically mean
that risk assets just cannot do as well
given that constraint added to the
potential concerns in private credit?
Yeah, look, I the central banks are in
in a tough spot, I think, particularly
in Europe, um, where you're kind of
inflation targeted and you might be
tightening into a very large demand
shock, you know, from higher oil prices.
So, it's it's it's an issue and it does
create, I think, negative riskreward in
a lot of markets. I think Europe in
particular is a part of the market that
we're not looking to dip by especially
you know if we were going to put some
risk on. You could talk yourself into
Japan or Korea which have sold off a lot
have a lot of oil exposure but also have
positive AI trends positive memory
trends. The US the same. You have a Fed
that's dualmandated that has a generally
strong economy already and that also has
kind of the AI impulse. If you have
higher energy prices structurally, that
is a massive impact on Europe and you
don't have the good news on the AI side
as well. So, I think Europe is the area
that we're we're most concerned about
from a riskreward perspective. But to
your point, I mean, it's it's it's
tough. I mean, there there's not a whole
lot of good news out there right now.
>> And the argument as to why they won't
hike rates is hardly encouraging either.
If you're turning around and saying the
likelihood of second order effects are
low because the economy is not as great
as it once was, that's not a great
argument to buy risk either. Either way,
you start to wonder at what point does
that affect the broader market trade and
it includes even AI and you've you
talked about this, John, but the idea of
how much money some of these companies
are raising, can they raise that much
money if private credit funds aren't
raising money right now? And frankly, if
they're facing redemptions and if you
see banks tightening up their standards,
it creates a higher bar. At what point
does that bleed into some of the
investments?
>> April 24, I think, is Alphabet. The week
after, you're going to hear from
Microsoft. Capex budgets in focus for
me. If the economy is not doing as well,
if financial conditions are tight,
what's the outlook for capex from those
big players?
>> Well, I mean, honestly, the economy is
capex, right? I mean, most of the GDP
growth came from capex last year. You
know, to Lisa's point, I do think they
are relatively price independent here. I
mean, they view this as existential.
They need to do their spending, but the
capex impulse into US economic growth
was massive. So, even if that just
starts to flatten out at a very high
level, that means your growth rates are
slowing, right? and and that is is kind
of a risk going forward. And look, we've
seen, you know, Blue tried to raise
money for that data center for for Core
We was only $4 billion, which actually
isn't that big a number in the context
of data centers and and didn't get that
done. So, yeah, there's there's a lot of
kind of, you know, wobbly pieces out
there right now, but, you know, we are
still an economy with relatively low
rates and an unemployment rate of 4.4%
and a massive capex, you know, kind of
spending tailwind and tax refunds are
coming in, not great, but but pretty
strong as well. So, there are some
positives. It's easy to kind of focus on
all the negative.
>> We're now being spent on energy bills
and that's probably the problem too on
credit on private credit. We'll have
this conversation in a bit more depth in
just a moment. If redemptions are up, is
it fair to say that loans being
underwritten are down? Isn't that fair
to say if you're seeing one, you're
going to see the other? And the read
through to the broader economy powered
by private markets in a much greater way
over the last several years. It's not
great, is it? I think the debate there
with private credit is is this something
that looks like 2007 and 2008 or is this
something that looks like a couple years
ago with commercial real estate where
everybody was very worried about
commercial real estate values collapsing
the impact on banks. You had a big ETF
that everybody wanted to be short. You
had all alternative asset managers that
must be exposed to this and it ended up
being a much smaller problem than we
imagined. So I think for private credit
that's a little bit of the debate right
now. Is this a sort of problem that we
can size and compartmentalize and it's
not big enough to be a global financial
crisis or is it something where there's
a lot of leverage in the system and it
becomes kind of a cascade effect.
>> It depends how you come at it. I'm not
looking at it from a systemic risk
perspective. We can do that. I can
entertain that conversation. But at the
moment I'm coming at it more from what
does it mean for the economy? What's the
economic risk? I'm thinking more about
tighter financial conditions. The kind
of things you can't see right now in
public markets. the idea of how much of
this money went to the more peripheral
businesses that were more highly
levered. If you take a look, how much is
this truly just tied to the software
story, too, because about a third of all
of these loans? An estimated one-third
were tied to software companies with
increasingly speculative kinds of deal
documents, etc. So, how much is this one
particular sleeve? And how much is this
going to disseminate between tighter
credit conditions at the banks that
already are exposed to some of these
credit firms?
>> So much of this stuff is connected right
now. Final question. Favorite trade. I
know it's difficult to trade this
market, but I know you've got a
favorite. You've got to advocate for
something. What's your favorite trade
right now?
>> You know, our favorite bounceback trade
would be like the chemicals and material
space in the US. I think that's the area
that that's sold off a ton and should
get the most relief if you kind of get
get energy prices down. There's probably
a few stocks in the consumer space as
well, but if we had to own something,
it' probably be that chemical space in
the US.
>> There we go. Stuart, thank you, sir.
Stuart Kaiser City, you got a favorite
trade?
>> Bed.
>> I agree.
>> I mean, at a certain point, you know,
you wake up, everything changes. Go back
to bed.
>> I'll take that lifeline on United
Airlines. You seen that, coach? The
three seats that drop. Seen that?
>> Well, I can tell you I'm not going to
LaGuardia anytime soon.
>> No, I'm not either.
>> You're not alone.
>> I'm not either. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Apple is testing a standalone
app for its Siri voice assistant and a
new Ask Siri feature as part of a
broader AI overhaul. sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the new Siri is
designed to tap into personal data and
interact with users in a conversational
format through text and voice. The
upgrade will likely be unveiled in June
at Apple's developer conference. And
speaking of those lay flat seats, United
Airlines is cutting 5% of its capacity
on routes that are not profitable and
don't cover higher fuel prices. CEO
Scott Kirby speaking to Lisa yesterday
about the impact of the war in Iran.
there will be less demand. There'll be
fewer people traveling as prices go up.
That's part of our cut capacity 5%.
Like, you know, when airfares have to go
up because of oil prices, there are
going to be some people that choose not
to fly. And it'd be naive not to realize
that if oil prices stayed where they are
today, uh that's 11 billion of expense
for us. Um and that would require prices
to be up 20% um to break even.
Kirby adding the airline would have to
increase prices by 20% to break even.
And ECB President Christine Lagard
signaling the bank is ready to act if
surging energy costs create broader
bouts of inflation. At the moment,
however, policy makers are paused
assessing the global impact caused by
the Iran war. And we will not act before
we have sufficient information on the
size and persistence of the shock and
its propagation.
But we will not be paralyzed by
hesitation
because our commitment to delivering 2%
inflation over the medium term is
unconditional.
>> The guard also saying we are prepared if
appropriate to make changes to our
policy at any meeting. Dr. Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, the Morn Cause plus
Crispen Love of Piper Sandler as stress
continues to build in private credit
markets. That conversation up next, live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Access
is an issue. When you've got an access
issue, prices are high. You're seeing
price start to impact demand in Asia
because they're feeling the brunt of it
immediately. That's the risk over time
is that that availability issue spreads
beyond just Asia, moves across the
globe. the longer we go and this I think
is the key issue.
>> That was Dan Pickering of Pickering
Energy Partners weighing in on the
energy issues right now. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning to
you all. Equity futures taking their
cues off this right now. The move in
crude. We're down by 5% on Brent to 99.
WTI down to about 88 and negative 4.4%
on the session. Off the back of that,
you're seeing lower yields, higher
equity prices. is on the S&P 500 this
morning. We are higher but off session
highs up by 3/4 of 1% on the NASDAQ up
by 0.9. And here's the move in bond
yields just slightly lower after a
really volatile 24 hours in the bond
market particularly at the front end of
the curve. Two's down about a basis
point to 38791
going into more supply later on today.
>> Yeah, we've got $70 billion of 5year
notes being sold at 1 p.m. Eastern today
and we've got $44 billion of 7-year
notes tomorrow. How does anybody game
out what benchmark yields should be
given the paniply of potential outcomes
here? A Fed that has an unclear reaction
function and a conflict with unclear
outcomes that could potentially
transform the world energy market.
>> Is it tradable? It's always tradable.
It's just difficult to trade right now
going into the weekend.
>> It feels like a very tenuous time to
take a lot of risk and it explains why
we're seeing such big swings. How much
is this on the heels of lighter uh
liquidity, a lighter real conviction
that you're seeing in the market?
>> It's got this Friday deadline, this
weekend deadline hanging over this
market through the next several days or
so and all these other stories coming
out about what the requests are, what
the asks are in diplomacy and talks. And
if Iran even acknowledges these talks
are happening, you're going to have days
of this now for the next several days.
>> It's one thing to have economic data
volatility. When you have tweet or truth
volatility, it becomes very difficult
for people to get ahead of That's the
price action and all the volatility.
Let's get you some more calls. First up,
Morgan Stanley downing shout to equal
weight reflecting limited upside in the
current pricing environment. Your second
call from Goldman lowering its price
target on KP home noting order slowdowns
driven by the Middle East conflict and
rising rates. And finally, Wolf Research
upgrading General Motors to outperform,
citing a lower tariff burden and
improved EV losses. That stock is up by
2% in the pre-market. Let's turn to
credit. Concerns continuing to build.
Aries and Apollo the latest to limit
withdrawals from private credit funds
blocking more than a billion dollars
worth of redemptions. Chrisen Love of
Piper Sandler writing we believe
adhering to the cap appropriately
balances the interests of new existing
and redeeming shareholders. Crispen
joins us now for more. Kristen, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Thank you Jonathan.
>> Thank you very much for being here.
Let's just talk about these credit
issues and the redemptions specifically.
What's behind the redemptions? Who are
the people doing the redeeming right
now? Yeah. So the redemptions right now
it's coming from the wealth channel. So
it's it's family offices and it's high
net worth indiv individuals who are
looking out and I think a lot of them
didn't necessarily know exactly the
product they were buying into where you
have this semi-liquid name of the
product and it can be a little bit of a
misnomer where it's liquid when you want
to get money out and it becomes illquid
when uh when many are running for the
exits.
>> There's another force I' I'd love to get
your thoughts on. If it was me and I was
redeeming and I knew I'd only get 50% of
whatever I was asking for, I'd just ask
for double, right?
>> How much of that is happening right now?
>> It's abs it's definitely happening and
that happened a lot in in BIE a few
years ago with Blackstone's real estate
fund. So, you're definitely seeing that
and where people are asking for more and
one thing on the the 5% caps that um
Apollo Aries um Black Rocks product has
put up. I think that can actually help
some of the forward redemptions where if
you think if you're a current investor
in that fund and they're letting um and
the funds are returning more than that
5% uh limit, if you're in the fund right
now, you're you're you're thinking, "Oh,
gez, I I I need to get out now where I
think they're actually doing a prudent
thing and using those caps."
>> Yeah, having the caps really has gotten
a lot of attention in the media's eye.
What has gotten less attention is how
difficult it is to raise money for some
of these private credit funds in this
environment. How much has that cretailed
uh the raising of new funds,
>> right? Absolutely. And it's a great
question and I think one thing that
we're seeing in the headlines is the
redemptions numbers. The requested
redemptions were over 11%. But what the
headlines aren't talking about are the
inflows that came in. So using Apollo,
they were able to they had gross inflows
of about 725 million in in this quarter.
and what they're going to be paying out
is right around 730 million. So net
flows in the product are actually
relatively stable. Um who knows what's
that's that's going to be in the next
couple of months, but it's not as if
you're just seeing redemptions and
you're not seeing any new capital coming
in.
>> On a broader level though, I wonder
private credit's been the golden child
of the private asset management industry
for a number of years now. It
outperformed for a couple of years and
then it had more tepid performance
numbers and I just wonder if it really
has the same kind of sheen going forward
or if the bloom's off the rose and
frankly they're not going to have the
same kind of power raising money from
these family offices as they've had in
the past couple of years.
>> Yeah. No, and I think that's a great
point where private credit is not
attract as attractive right now as it
was a couple years ago where the
environment's changed where just first
base rates have come down. Credit
quality was extremely strong and our our
view is right now is you're going to see
credit issues that come up. There are
going to be one-offs. There are going to
be two-offs. But when you look at the
broader portfolio, we don't see systemic
issues with many of these companies with
loan to values at 30 to 40% and adjust
um ibida in the hundreds of millions of
dollars. So what we don't think that a
lot of people are talking about is
private equity than private credit where
in order for the credit funds to lose
money, private equity needs to be
completely wiped out.
>> Kenny, some headlines on Iran. Just
going to jump in with this. You're
seeing a bit of a turnaround in the
equity market. It was high by close to
1% on the S&P 500, now positive by just
0.7%.
We understand the push, the 15-point
peace plan coming from the US side. The
Iranian response, they've suggested
there is no negotiation right now. This
from state media just moments ago. Iran
does not accept the ceasefire. The US
talks are what they call illogical.
>> And a lot of the points that the US put
out there were the points that were
being discussed before the bombing
began, before March. And you just
wonder, is this really that surprising?
the fact that essentially you're saying
that the US is trying really hard to
secure the ceasefire and Iran keeps
saying we don't want it. This is an
existential battle and we need to
establish deterrence.
>> This particular news report citing an
informed source on the US ceasefire
talks. Of course, this is so hard to
track because you don't know who anybody
is actually talking about. And when Iran
comes out and says this isn't happening,
we keep going back to this. I know it
sounds like a broken record, but who is
Iran? Who is the official? Who are the
people we're talking about here? And is
that official the person who the US is
speaking to right now?
>> To take that a step further, if you want
to go into conspiracy theory land, on
one hand, you've got the US and other
nations that want to keep oil prices low
and you have Iran that wants to push oil
prices as high as possible. So you're
going to get the jawbon on both sides
trying to achieve those aims and the
market's trading on it.
>> Chris, at least you're getting a break.
You don't have to talk about these
things anymore. Crispen love that of
Piper Sander. Chrisen, thanks for being
here. Appreciate it. Otherwise, private
markets, as you said repeatedly, this
would be the top headline every single
morning with doing this program. If it
wasn't for this shot in the Middle East,
>> it would be a question around how much
systemic risk is there, not just when it
comes to private credit, but more
broadly in the fact that we haven't seen
a credit cycle and in certain pockets
there was lending that wasn't as prudent
as it has been done in the past and that
there is a shakeup that would be uh
really forced upon the market should
there be some sort of downturn.
>> The signal this market is taking is that
the US is looking for a ceasefire.
That's a signal. Those headlines out of
Iran also speak to that and that's where
the optimism is coming. And the
difference between where we are now
compared to where we were first thing
Monday morning, which was the prospect
of escalation risk. The conversation of
a ceasefire is a very different place to
be whether you think these talks have
got legs or not,
>> which is a reason why the market's a lot
more comfortable. Whether it will stay
that way, we shall see.
>> And still positive by 0.8%. Up next,
we'll catch up with Senator Dave
McCormick from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks just off session highs. We'll get
to the why in just a moment. Here's the
price. We're positive by 0.7% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ up by 0.9. We were
higher by more than 1% on the NASDAQ and
about 1% higher on the S&P 500. In the
bond market, yields were lower across
the curve. twos, tens, 30s, twos right
now almost unchanged, down almost the
basis point on twos to 388. And in the
commodity market, crude was down by more
than 6% at one point. Brent now down
3.9, $100.40,
call it 50. Let's talk about the why. So
there's a massive diplomatic push coming
from the US side and hopefully it
generates some results. We all want
that. You want to see a ceasefire. You
don't want to see any more death, that's
for sure, across the Middle East. This
is coming from the Iranian side. This
according to the semi-official news
agency, Iran says the truce and the
talks are not viable in the current
conditions. That's the push back coming
from the Iranian side.
>> Yeah. Saying that the US talks are
illogical according to the semiofficial
state media and it raises this issue of
can you get confidence in the signal
coming from the White House that they
are efforting some sort of diplomatic
solution or is the reality something
that is a protracted battle. where both
sides are are gearing up for a longer
situation and ultimately the market is
going with the more optimistic view at
least for the moment.
>> It's clinging to the signal for now that
this is an administration looking for
talks. But you have to keep your eye on
the horizon and that's what makes this
market so difficult to trade right now.
Most people acknowledge that. We've said
this repeatedly throughout this morning.
We're confronting substantial two-way
risk. This can break one way or the
other. And it's the other way it can
break that I think we have to spend some
more time on. Look at the calendar and
look where we'll be by the time we get
to this weekend. There's a potential for
a real troop buildup in the Middle East
in the next several days. That puts us
in a very, very different position,
facing a very, very different scenario.
And choosing what to wait, one versus
the other right now is a huge judgment
call you've got operating in this
market,
>> which is the reason why people are
pointing to that troop buildup.
initially 5,000 troops sent to the
region, then an additional 2,000 from
this special unit uh that is known to be
called up quickly and go in. It raises
for Iran a question of whether the US is
delaying in order to make a bigger
incursion on land on with boots on the
ground uh boots on the ground. This is
the reason why this is such a difficult
conflict.
>> The S&P giving up some gains still just
about positive by 0.5% with the opening
bow just around the corner. Let's get
you some morning movers, your single
names with your Hierra. Hi Yahara.
>> Hi John. After a sharp sell-off in
software stocks yesterday on reports
Amazon is developing new AI tools, I
want to show you this name Braise
surging 20%. This is a software company,
one of the top performers on the NASDAQ
in the pre-market uh and bucking those
disruption fears due to its earnings
with the company pointing to strong
demand including strong enterprise
bookings up 50% yearonear. And turning
to the MAD 7, we are still seeing
resilience despite those headlines we
just got that you just broke on Iran not
accepting this ceasefire as investors
continue to lean into this idea that
President Trump is trying to deescalate,
trying to uh have a ceasefire. So you
are seeing Tesla, Nvidia, Amazon all
still up in the pre-market. And we end
on AMD and Intel also showing some
resilience. Intel up 3.6%. 6% on reports
from Nicay that both companies are
warning customers about another round of
price hikes for their their CPUs. Uh
it's the latest sign that the ship
shortage is moving beyond just memory
and into processors and that's adding
pressure on PC uh server and smartphone
makers as they compete with data centers
uh trying to get those memory and CPU
chips. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Let's turn back to our top story. The
Iranian semiofficial media just moments
ago saying Iran does not accept a
ceasefire proposal from the United
States. The US proposing a 15-point plan
to formally end the war between the two
nations. Amarie is joining us now from
Washington DC and joins us with a
special guest. Hey Amory.
>> Thank you so much Jonathan. And yeah,
the Iranians are saying that these talks
are illogical. And a man that sits
really at the center, the intersection
of all of this, his experience now and
prior experience, whether it's
geopolitics, financial markets, or
actually a decorated combat veteran. I
am joined now by Senator David McCormack
from Pennsylvania. Senator, thank you so
much for joining me and good morning to
you.
>> Good morning.
So, I'm not sure if you just saw the
news, but Iran has saying that these
ceasefire talks are non-existent and
they're calling what the US is calling
for as illogical. What is your
understanding right now at the White
House is putting forward? You sit on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Is
the president buying time? Is this
diplomacy or is this a distraction?
>> Well, I wouldn't put much stock into
what the Iranian spokesman say. Think
about it this way. If you're the person
that's trying to negotiate some sort of
endgame and you've got a bunch of
radicals uh as part of the uh part of
the the constellation of forces in Iran,
you're certainly not going to uh present
yourself as as the voice of reason. So
um a lot of what's happening I think in
the public domain shouldn't give us too
much insight into what's happening
behind the scenes. I think stepping back
bottom line if you would have said on
the first day of combat operations where
will we be 20 21 days 22 days into this
I think from a military perspective
we've made enormous progress we still
have work to do but we've eliminated uh
ballistic missiles drones manufacturing
capability uh the navy and those are the
goals that President Trump set out along
with making sure Iran can never get a
nuclear weapon. So question one for for
America I think is where are we relative
to those goals? I think we made a lot of
progress but we got to finish that job.
And then second um we've got to make
sure we secure the straits of Hormuz.
And um I think there's there's uh
multiple ways to to try to lessen the
blow of oil markets. want uh the
administration is doing a lot of things
to make sure there's adequate supply,
but inevitably we're going to have to be
able to show the markets and show the
world uh that we can put uh ships
through the straits. And that's going to
require some combination of our allies
working together with our military to
eliminate that threat. Once those two
things happen, I think uh we have a much
more stable, secure situation and I
think we'll we're on a path to being
able to look back and saying we've
achieved the objectives there, but but
obviously there's more work to do.
>> Well, could that happen through this
15-point plan the administration has
given the Iranians via Pakistani
officials?
>> Yeah, I I think it could. I mean, the
you know, the the the most important
goal of the United States and it was the
goal from day one. This was a regime
that was underwriting terrorist
organizations around the world. It had
more American blood on its hands than
any other country. It was building up an
enormous ballistic missile capability.
If you think Iran was formidable today,
imagine 3 years from now. It had called
America the great Satan that it wanted
to destroy and it was committed to a
nuclear weapon. That was that was an
unsustainable position. We had to
eliminate that threat. If that threat is
eliminated and the Iranian regime,
whatever form it takes, is committed to
not rebuilding nuclear weapons and not
restarting its ballistic missile, then
that that's the basis for a negotiation.
Um, you know, the Straits of Hormuse,
this is this is, you know, I I laugh
when when I hear people saying maybe
they didn't think of that. I mean, this
has been uh the strategic question for
decades. When I deployed to the Gulf in
1990, uh this was a primary
consideration. oil prices were over $100
in today's dollars. Uh and in the
financial crisis when I was the under
sect for the Treasury, uh oil prices hit
$200 in uh uh in today's prices. So, uh
creating stability in the straits and
making sure it's secure is is a critical
geopolitical objectives and we're going
to have to uh we can't leave this
situation until we're sure the straits
are going to be secure.
Uh certainly uh Iran as a military
threat uh is going to be dramatically
diminished which was which was the goal.
>> I want to pick up on your on your past.
Your old division the 82nd Airborne is
being deployed 2,000 troops. Is it your
understanding that those service members
along with the two Marine Expeditionary
Units will be used to secure the
straight?
I I'm uh I think the president is doing
exactly what he should do, which is he's
creating maximum optionality. Uh those
uh uh those forces in the region,
relatively small numbers, uh five or 6
thousand in total once the 82nd gets
there, they just give him lots of
optionality. There's all sorts of
potential ways that you might use the
combination of air power, uh naval
power, and ground troops to secure the
straits. Um, so I think the president's
smart to create options and uh and he's
made the objectives clear, which is we
got to get rid of this military capacity
to kill Americans, threaten our allies,
and uh we've got to have the straits
secure and open to global commerce. Uh
those two things are are critical. I I I
also want to make a point that if you
look at this situation compared to those
past situations, 2008 that I mentioned
or 1990, what's different is the
commitment to energy dominance uh that
we have here in America. And I I give
President Trump a lot of credit for
that. We're a net exporter. Um we are uh
well on the way to building enormous
capacity based on the steps the
president has taken. So we are more
isolated from the shock associated with
what's going on in the Middle East than
we've ever been in the past and and
others. China and Europe and others are
not as isolated because uh they haven't
had that kind of capability and
leadership in thei that we have in the
United States.
>> Of course, your former job, our audience
knows you very well. You ran Bridgewater
Associates, this massive hedge fund. I
just would also love to get your take in
terms of what's going on with financial
markets. Energy prices have been
whipsawing. We're seeing trading ranges
you would normally see in a year, even
two years that are happening within
moments, especially most recently. Um,
regarding what's happening in the oil
futures moment, do you understand
exactly what is going on in terms of the
financial markets? Do you think they're
too paying too close attention to
potentially what Trump says and not
exactly what he's doing?
Well, u you know, listen, I wouldn't be
one to one want to stand here and try to
predict markets, but but I do think if
you look through this moment, um so
look, weeks, months ahead, uh and don't
get caught up in the day-to-day
whipsawing, um I I think you can see a
path to a circumstance where energy
markets more broadly and American
interests more specifically are in much
better a much better situation than they
were before the president took action in
Venezuela and in Iran. So imagine a
world where Iran no longer has the
capacity to threaten the straits. Uh the
straits are open and so we have that
constant uh supply that goes through
there with security. 30% of the oil
reserves in the world are in Venezuela
and Iran and uh and those certainly
Venezuela but hopefully Iran will be
much more uh amenable uh pro- western uh
when the dust settles. Um I I'm not
trying to be too polyianish here, but if
you think through the path of what we
might see in three months, six months, I
think it's a much more stable world. I
think it's a much more stable Middle
East. I think the straits of Hormuse are
are more secure than they were before
this started. And I think global oil uh
markets and global energy markets uh are
much more stable. And I again I want to
come back to this. This happens within
the context of America energy and and
Pennsylvania energy. We're the second
largest energy producer in America.
We're the fourth largest natural gas
reserves in the world. We're unlocking
uh that potential. So I would imagine
again when the dust settles that Europe
will be a much bigger uh uh buyer and
recipient of American energy because
they've now seen some of the uncertainty
that goes with having Russia as a
supplier or the Middle East as a
supplier. So I I think
>> specifically,
>> Senator, just specifically on the oil
futures market, there was a massive
trade just minutes before the
president's truth came out. And we've
had guests on this program, some of your
former colleagues in your old world
saying that is highly suspicious at
minimum. didn't want to go far to say
it's manipulation, but are you concerned
that there has been manipulation when it
comes to some of the posts or statements
we're seeing from the White House and
massive trades taken just before those
moments?
Well, in general, uh, without going
specific to that, in general, I'm I'm
concerned about the fact that, uh, that
information can be leaked in a way, uh,
out of the government or to public
officials in a way that that people
benefit from it, whether it's public
officials or otherwise. I just
co-sponsored a piece of legislation to
eliminate the ability of members of
Congress to trade equities. Not because
I think there's massive fraud going on
or something like that, but because even
the perception of people benefiting from
insider information that's resides
within within the government, I think is
is is extremely problematic. So, um I
can't comment on the specifics of those
trades, but what I will comment on is I
think there's a clear set of rules and
laws uh that that everybody needs to
adhere to if you're in public life. And
then second, we also need to worry about
the perceptions associated with that and
take the extra mile to make sure that
the public can be confident that uh that
public officials are are acting solely
in the interest of the public.
>> We hear a lot and I've been hearing a
lot how the physical market is so
different right now than the paper
market when it comes to energy. You
mentioned what is going on in terms of
how America really is a net exporter
now. So, we are a little bit more
insulated from this, but still, I'm sure
you've heard from constituents, prices
are going up. Gasoline is a hair away
from $4 a gallon. How is Congress set to
address this?
>> Yeah, I'm glad you mentioned that. It's
uh I should have mentioned that. That's
a that's a huge issue uh that's
happening on the ground in Pennsylvania.
The the gallon of gas is about 60 cents
more than it was uh before this started.
And if and for if you're a working
family, uh the median income in
Pennsylvania is about $52,000 a year. if
you're a working family, this this puts
real pressure uh on you. And so, you
know, we've made enormous progress uh
since the president took office on
bringing down the rate of inflation to
about 2.5. It was on average five during
the Biden administration, 22%
uh total and wages up. So, wages are are
greater than uh inflation. But um but
people are still feeling pressures from
housing cost, from uh uh from healthcare
cost, and from energy prices. And so
there's a number of things we're trying
to do. The president just uh sat down
with uh with a number of the governors
from the uh PJM states uh in the
Northeast to try to bring down
electricity prices. These deals that are
being done with the hyperscalers for the
big data centers, we're a big recipient
of that investment. They're now uh being
done with a covenant that essentially
ensures that they bring energy that
exceeds what their demand's going to be
so it doesn't raise energy prices for
folks. So there's a number of things
underway, permitting reform to bring
down the price of energy. But in the
near term, uh I take your point and it's
a very real one. People are feeling this
pressure and that's I think one of the
reasons we hope to get this thing
wrapped up in in the coming weeks so uh
we could have that stability and get
these price increases behind us and go
back to normal. Um, and some of our
viewers of course might be, and I just
want to end on this, might be going to
the airport today, and I'm sure you've
seen the lines, some of them up to five
hours long. What is going on with
funding DHS? You know, there's lots of
reporting that there is this GOP bill
potentially where we could fund DHS, uh,
but it wouldn't go to ICE enforcement.
Would you be a yes on that?
Well, um, you know, listen, and I I I
hope you have me be back to my program,
but you can you can test this sometime
down the road if this ever happens. But
whether I'm a Republican or a Democrat
in the majority of the minority, I will
never vote to defund the government or
not fund the government. This is a it's
a real it's a real disgrace. And this is
the second time it happened. And and
what happens is people, the Democrats
are trying to use this as political
leverage to get reforms in ICE. And the
people that are suffering are the
members of TSA or the Coast Guard, uh
the Secret Service, SISA, which is the
which is the Homeland Security Cyber
Office. Uh the bottom line here is this
is creating uh additional risk for
Americans because the threat levels up
based on what's going on in the Middle
East. It's a huge burden on those TSA
agents. We we've got a call-in rate in
Philadelphia about 25%. So 25% of people
aren't coming to work. They have to go
earn money elsewhere. And it's a huge
burden. And I I flew on Monday. It was a
disaster. I had flights canceled. I sat
on the runway. It was a 6-hour trip that
took Sounds like you're a yes.
>> Uh I am a yes. Got
>> We've got to fund the government.
Absolutely. We've got to fund Homeland
Security. The pre the the reforms uh
that the Democrats are talking about.
Many of them were already in the bill.
Body cams, money for deescalation
training. Uh the president already put
forward a set of reforms. This is
political theater. This is not good
policy. and uh we got to get it behind
us. I think the American people are
rightly incredibly frustrated as am I.
>> I'm a yes.
>> Senator Dave McCorm, Senator Dave
McCormack, thank you for your time and
of course this conversation focused on
Iran. Thank you for your service in the
'9s. Jonathan, of course, that was a
senator from Pennsylvania. He's a yes
when it comes to uh funding DHS and the
question was not for ICE enforcement.
When it comes to Ron, he said the job's
not done. Interesting take.
>> Amory, appreciate the update. Fantastic
exchange. Senator McCormack uniquely
positioned to talk about these issues.
Experience with policy, experience in
financial markets, experience in the
military as well. On Monday morning's
price action, I really liked how he
framed this. This is important. Who knew
what and when? It's not proven that
anything nefarious happened, but the
activity in the leadup to that social
media post is raising lots of questions.
And the perception, just the perception
of people benefiting is a problem in and
of itself. That's the reason why he's
backing things to prevent certain types
of trading in Congress more broadly. But
it goes to the bigger question, how
confident can people be investing in a
market that feels rigged on some level?
And that I think is something that
people will increasingly discuss even if
nobody can prove a thing and even if it
isn't necessarily anything nefarious,
the perception is there and that's a
problem.
>> His line on Iran is really important as
well and we've talked about this in
various ways throughout the last few
days. when you get denial and push back
from the Iranian side, even if you were
negotiating, would you want to talk
about it publicly? Would you like to
tell your other friends in Iran that
you're having those conversations with
the US right now about securing some
kind of peace deal? Just this adds the
question around market uh dynamics right
now as well because the US would like to
see oil prices come in and they would
like a sense of stability and Iran wants
oil prices to go up and have the
perception that this is an existential
battle that they will act like cornered
cats and keep fighting and keep uh doing
moves however desperate to make sure
that this is a disruption that exerts
the maximum pain on the international
economy.
>> A battle to secure leverage right now
and get invisibility on this talks
increasingly difficult. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yhara has
more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Iranian officials rejecting the
US's 15point peace plan a day after
receiving the offer. State media saying
Iran does not believe it is logical to
enter talks with parties that violate
agreements, acknowledging the US has
stepped up efforts to secure a ceasefire
with indirect talks. Meanwhile, Barclay
shares are rising 3% in London. The bank
is scaling back its assetbacked lending
to smaller borrowers. The move follows
losses Barkclay suffered from the
collapse of financial market financial
solutions andricolor holdings. Barclays
is shifting its focus to loans for
larger corporates already pulling back
from several deals with higher perceived
risks.
And SpaceX could file for its highly
anticipated IPO as early as this week.
the information reporting. Elon Musk's
company may try to raise a record of
more than $75 billion. That would make
it the largest in history, topping Saudi
Aramco's 20 more than $29 billion
listing back in 2019. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> What a time. What a time to deliver. And
Yahara, thank you. What a time to
deliver. One of the biggest IPOs ever.
>> I mean, this to me shows how financial
conditions are not that tight, right?
Right. And we've all been talking about
tightening financial conditions, but
that IPO, which might be the biggest or
one of the biggest ever in history,
still potentially slated for this week.
>> I think it's fair to say that's a
particularly unique company that might
get some particularly unique attention.
>> There are a lot of unique companies
though. And this is the reason why
people keep saying you could still
increase maybe your forecast for US
equities.
>> Yeah, Barclays. What a call from
Barclays to lift your price target on
this stock market. Amazing at this
moment. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
The most likely path is the uncertainty
in the Middle East may put them on hold
for a while. But I think eventually uh
this will be resolved. It'll be in the
rearview mirror and I think at that
point Kevin Walsh when he does arrive
will will be inclined to lower rates at
least down to the neutral level of
around 3%.
>> Could be an interesting summer for the
Federal Reserve. That was Richard Clara
of PIMCO, formerly of course the Fed
vice chair not so long ago. If you're
just joining us, welcome to the program.
Equity futures right now on the S&P 500
positive by 0.8%
on the S&P on the Nasdaq up by 1% on the
Russell also higher by one percentage
point with the opening bow just around
the corner. Bond yields set up as
follows. Twos 10 and 30s yields are just
a little bit lower by basis point on
twos with crude down on the session
going into some important auctions.
Bremo over the next few days,
>> $70 billion of five-year notes coming
later today. And then, of course, on
tomorrow, you get $44 billion of
seven-year notes. Do you get the same
kind of indigestion that we got
yesterday with the two-year auction? And
if you do, what does that say about
people's appetite to absorb interest
rate risk at a time of such volatility?
>> It is a very interesting market. I think
we can say that right now, right? It's
very confusing time. Difficult to really
put money to work, but a very
interesting market. I think that is
completely believed across Wall Street.
>> From New York City this morning, good
morning. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.